Chapter B1. Introduction
B1.3. Terminology


PoDP


Point of Persistence(PoP) is a potential point in a memory system at or beyond the Point of Coherency,
where a write to memory is maintained when system power is removed, and reliably recovered when
power is restored to the affected locations in memory.


(PoDP) is a point in the memory system where the data is preserved even
Point of Deep Persistence
when the power and the back up battery fail simultaneously.
PoPA
(PoPA) is a point where updates to a location in one Physical Address Space
Point of Physical Aliasing
(PAS) are visible to all other Physical Address Spaces.
PoPS
(PoPS) is a point furthest in the memory hierarchy away from a PE or another
Point of Physical Storage
observer to which a write transaction could propagate, that is, memory.
Downstream cache
A downstream cache is defined from the perspective of a Request Node. A downstream cache for a


Requester

Request is a cache that the Request accesses using CHI request transactions. A Request Node can send
a request with data to allocate data into a downstream cache.


A component that starts a transaction by issuing a request message. The term Requester can be used for
a component that independently initiates transactions. The term Requester can also be used for an


Completer

interconnect component that issues a downstream Request message independently or as a side-effect of
other transactions that are occurring in the system.


Any component that responds to a received transaction from another component. A Completer can


Subordinate

either be an interconnect component, such as a Home Node or a Miscellaneous Node, or a component,
such as a Subordinate, that is outside of the interconnect.


An agent that receives transactions and completes them appropriately. Typically, a Subordinate is the

Endpoint
most downstream agent in a system. A Subordinate can also be referred to as a Completer or Endpoint.


Protocol
Another name for a Subordinate component. An Endpoint is the final destination for a transaction.
 Credit


Link
A credit, or guarantee, from a Completer that it will accept a transaction.
 L-Credit
 layer Credit,
A credit, or guarantee, that a flit will be accepted on the other side of the link. An L-Credit is a credit

ICN
for a single hop at the Link layer.


Interconnect (ICN) is the CHI transport mechanism that is used for communication between protocol
nodes. An interconnect can include an IMPLEMENTATION SPECIFIC fabric of switches connected in a
ring, mesh, crossbar, or another topology. The interconnect can also include protocol nodes, such as

IPA
Home Node and Miscellaneous Node.


Intermediate Physical Address(IPA). In two-stage address translation:


ARM IHI 0050
33
Issue H

• Stage 1 provides an Intermediate Physical Address (IPA).
• Stage 2 provides the Physical Address (PA).
RN
(RN) generates protocol transactions, including reads and writes, to the interconnect.
Request Node


(HN) is a node within the interconnect that receives protocol transactions from Request
HN
Home Node
Nodes, completes the required coherency action, and returns a response.
SN
Subordinate Node (SN) is a node that receives a Request from a Home Node, completes the required
action, and returns a response.


 node


MN
Miscellaneous or Misc Node (MN) is a node located within the interconnect that receives DVM
messages from Request Nodes, completes the required action, and returns a response.
IO Coherent
A Request Node that generates a subset of Snoopable requests in addition to Non-snoopable requests.
The Snoopable requests that an IO Coherent node generates do not result in the caching of the received
data in a coherent state. Therefore, an IO Coherent node does not receive any Snoop requests.


 protocol


Snoopee
A Request Node that is receiving a snoop.
Write-Invalidate
A protocol in which a Request Node writing to a shared cache line in the system must invalidate all
copies before proceeding with the write. The CHI protocol is a Write-Invalidate protocol.
 manner
In a timely
The protocol cannot define an absolute time within which something must occur. A sufficiently idle
system can progress and complete without explicit action.
Inapplicable
A field value that indicates that the field is not used in the processing of the message.


34