Chapter B10. Realm
B10.8. Granular

Data must be the cached data.
*
MECID must be the cached MECID value.
*
MismatchedMECID must be set to 1.
*
– No change in permitted state transitions or responses for SnpCleanShared:
If providing SnpRespData or SnpRespDataPtl:
*
· Data must be the cached data.


. If SnpRespData or SnpRespDataPtl is provided:


· MECID must be the cached MECID .
· MismatchedMECID must be 1.
– No change in behavior required for SnpQuery or SnpMakeInvalid.
• For Stashing snoops:
– DataPull is not permitted.
– No change in behavior required for SnpMakeInvalidStash, SnpStashUnique, and SnpStashShared.
– SnpUniqueStash permits SnpRespData, SnpRespDataPtl, or SnpResp_I, depending on start state and
RetToSrc

*
Data must be the cached data.

*
MECID must be the cached MECID value.


 for a Home
*
MismatchedMECID must be set to 1.
B10.8.1.3 Requirements
The requirements listed in this section apply to transactions that target a:
• System Agent or Non-secure Protected PAS, when the GDI_Support is True.
• Realm PAS, when the MECID_Mismatch_Resolution_Realm property is True.


IMPLEMENTATIONto an


When Home receives MismatchedMECID set to 1 in SnpRespData or SnpRespDataPtl, it must establish whether
there is any Data-masking required. Any action is dependent upon the original motivation for the snoop, which
includes:
• An incoming read request.
– Any CompData or DataSepResp that Home provides must be masked 
value. It is recommended, but not required, that this value is all ones.
SPECIFIC
– Any SLC allocation or downstream write must use the Data and MECID values from the returned
SnpRespData or SnpRespDataPtl.


 write allocates into the SLC – SnpRespData and SnpRespDataPtl must be
• An incoming partial write request.
If the partial
masked to anIMPLEMENTATION SPECIFIC value.
It is recommended, but not required, that this
value is all ones.
– SnpRespDataPtl must be treated as if all Byte
Enables were set to 1.
– The partial NonCopyBackWriteData must be
merged into this masked value.
– The MECID value of the cached location must be
the MECID of the incoming write request.
If the partial write does not allocate into the SLC and is processed locally

ARM IHI 0050
406

– SnpRespData and SnpRespDataPtl must be
masked to anIMPLEMENTATION SPECIFIC value.
It is recommended, but is not required, that this
value is all ones.
– SnpRespDataPtl must be treated as if all Byte
Enables were set to 1.
– The partial NonCopyBackWriteData must be
merged into this masked value.
– The downstream WriteNoSnpFull must use the
resulting Data value and the MECID of the
incoming write request.
If the partial write does not allocate into the SLC and is not processed locally
– Data must be written back to memory using the
Data and MECID values provided in
SnpRespData or SnpRespDataPtl.
– The downstream WriteNoSnpPtl must be ordered
behind the above write and must occur with the
Data and MECID values from the incoming
partial write.
• An incoming full line write request.
– No action is required. Any SLC allocation or downstream write must use the Data value and the
MECID of the incoming write request.
• An incoming StashOnce .
– Any SLC allocation of the returned Data must use the Data and MECID values provided in
SnpRespData or SnpRespDataPtl.
– Any CompData or DataSepResp that Home provides to a Stash target, which is different to the Snoopee
returning SnpRespData or SnpRespDataPtl, must be masked toIMPLEMENTATION an
 SPECIFIC value.
It is recommended, but not required that this value is all ones.
• An incoming CMO request.
– No action is required. CMO transactions do not provide a MECID , therefore Home will be unable to
provide an accurate MECID on a snoop. Any write to memory must use the Data and MECID values
provided in SnpRespData or SnpRespDataPtl.
• A snoop filter back invalidation.
– No action is required. Snoop filters are not required to store the MECID of a location being tracked, so
will be unable to provide an accurate MECID on a snoop. Any write to memory must use the Data and
MECID values provided in SnpRespData or SnpRespDataPtl.


 0050
407

Chapter B11
System Control, Debug, Trace, and Monitoring


This chapter describes mechanisms that provide extra support for the controlling, debugging and tracing of
systems, and the monitoring of systems to enhance performance. It contains the following sections:
• B11.1 Quality of Service (QoS) mechanism
• B11.2 Data Source
• B11.3 Data Target
• B11.4 MPAM
• B11.5 Page-based Hardware Attributes
• B11.6 Completer Busy
• B11.7 Trace Tag


408