Chapter B10. Realm
B10.6. Memory

• DVMOp
The MECID field is inapplicable and can take any value in:
• Evict
• CleanShared
• CleanSharedPersist
• CleanSharedPersistSep
• CleanInvalid
• CleanInvalidPoPA
• CleanInvalidStorage
• MakeInvalid
• CleanUnique
• MakeUnique
The MECID field is applicable in all other requests, and can take any value bounded by the PAS relationship in
Table B13.47 .
B10.6.1.3 DAT channel
The MECID field is required on the DAT channel to remove the need for the snoop filter to be MECID aware. This
allows back invalidating snoops to be issued without knowledge of the MECID value in the Requester.
The MECID field shares a common field on the DAT channel with the DBID field.
The common field is considered as:
• MECID when DataPull is 0 and the message is SnpRespData, SnpRespDataPtl, or SnpRespDataFwded.
MECID can take any value bounded by the PAS relationship in Table B13.47 .
• DBID when DataPull is 1, or in any data message that is not SnpRespData, SnpRespDataPtl, or
SnpRespDataFwded.
The MECID field is inapplicable and must be zero in all other DAT messages.
If all bytes of a DAT message are marked with Poison or DERR, the MECID field is considered as poisoned.
B10.6.1.4 SNP channel
A Snoopee must be able to detect and act upon a MECID mismatch to a snooped Non-secure Protected or System
Agent location. See B10.8.1 MECID mismatch resolution .
A Snoopee is permitted, but not required, to detect and act upon a MECID mismatch to a snooped Realm location,
as determined by the MECID_Mismatch_Resolution_Realm property.
When a Snoopee requests DataPull as part of a Stash snoop response, it is avoiding any local translation
assignment or context assignment which would have otherwise assigned a MECID value. When allocating any
returned CompData, the MECID value used by the DataPull request is obtained from the snoop request.
The following applicability is required for the MECID field:
• Inapplicable and must be zero in SnpDVMOp and SnpQuery.
• Inapplicable and can take any value in SnpLCrdReturn.
• Applicable in all other Snoop messages and can take any value bounded by the PAS relationship in Table
B13.47.


ARM IHI 0050
394

B10.6.2 Memory accesses

If the interconnect forwards a request onto a Subordinate, it is expected to forward the MECID value along with
the request.
It is expected that if the interconnect caches a line, the MECID value is cached as well.


B10.6.3


Memory accesses that are the result of cache evictions, dedicated Cache Maintenance Operations, or snoop filter
back invalidations must use the MECID value that the entry was cached with, instead of the MECID value in any
associated request.

 Stash transactions

When Home receives a Stash request and generates a Stash snoop to a Requester, the MECID value from the


B10.6.4

request must be sent along with the snoop.

 Operations
 Cache Maintenance

®
Architecture Reference Manual for A-profile architecture
An access to a cacheable memory location is associated with a MECID until reaching the PoE. The MEC
Architecture in Arm
states that Cache Maintenance
Operations to the Point of Physical Aliasing (PoPA) can affect all caches before the PoE.
Data is encrypted before being written to external memory or to any shared cache that resides past the PoPA.
Cache Maintenance Operations to the PoPA are sufficient to affect all caches before the PoE, and dedicated PoE
Cache Maintenance Operations are not required.
Memory accesses resulting from a cache Clean operation use the MECID that the entry was cached with.
In an RME system with MEC, the following Cache Maintenance Operations act, regardless of any MECID value
mismatches:
• CleanShared


B10.6.5
 and Poison signaling


• CleanSharedPersist (+ Deep)
• CleanSharedPersistSep (+ Deep)
• CleanInvalid
• CleanInvalidStorage
• MakeInvalid
• CleanInvalidPoPA
Combined Write requests are issued with a MECID as per the requirement for an independent Write transaction.

 MECID correctness

MECID correctness is required to be maintained to prevent data corruption. The MECID field metadata must be
propagated or corrected, as required, to ensure integrity across all transaction types, including speculative,
forwarded, and coherent operations.
If a cache implementation determines that a stored MECID is corrupt, any associated Data transferred from that
line is required to have the all the Poison field bits set or the RespErr field set to DERR.

Note
If Data is transferred without Poison or DERR, this may result in a silent corruption when the cache line is
later written back beyond the PoE using an incorrect encryption context.

Any Read transaction that derives its MECID value through address translation will correct any corrupt MECID
value at the point of allocation. However, the returned Data may be signaled as corrupt through the Poison field or

395

DERR response, if the Data was marked as corrupt in the Completer cache. Operations that clear the Poison field
from a cache line must ensure that the MECID associated with that line is updated to a known, suitable value.

Note
If the cache line is updated but the stored MECID field is not, any subsequent writeback beyond the PoE
may result in silent data corruption due to encryption with an incorrect context.

When a MECID field is provided as part of a Stash operation, either through a Write with Stash hint or through an
independent Stash request, the MECID field is required to always be considered correct. The same applies to
Immediate Writes that are not the result of a cache eviction. These transactions are assumed to originate from valid
architectural contexts and do not depend on cached metadata for MECID field correctness.

Note
Writes with Stash hint, independent Stash transactions, and Immediate Writes that are not derived from
cache state have a short lifetime or are directly issued by a Requester with a valid architectural context. As a
result, Writes with Stash hint, independent Stash transactions, and Immediate Writes are considered less
susceptible to poisoning than Data that resides within a cache structure for an extended period.
Consequently, the MECID correctness is assumed for such transactions.

Atomic* and PrefetchTgt transactions are required to treat the MECID field as correct in all cases.
Dataless write operations cannot convey the MECID field correctness information and are required to treat the
MECID field as correct. If a corrupted MECID field is detected prior to issuing a Dataless request, the
implementation is required to use a data-carrying version of the Write.


396