A device is a single physical chip(let) and is treated as a single unit from a trust perspective and individually
attested.
A device:


(DCM) directly attached to it. The DCM can be


• Is trusted in its entirety for a set of Realms only and trusted to maintain Realm separation where required.
• Can have private memory-mapped resources.
• Can have one or more interfaces.
• Can have memory termed as Device Coherent Memory
coherently accessed by the host, the device, and by other coherent devices.
• Can access the DCM of another coherent device only where that access is channeled through a host compute
node.
• Only operates in the Realm and Non-secure PAS.
• Is expected, but not required, to include the following fields in all requests to the host:
– SecSID1
– StreamID
• Only receives snoop requests for:
– Regions of memory owned by Realms that trust the device
– Non-secure regions of memory


®
Architecture


• Cannot be directly connected to another device.
• Is not permitted to send DVMOp requests or SnpDVMOp snoops towards to a host.
The host and the devices can have multiple Request Nodes and Home Nodes.
It is expected that the host will perform additional checks on certain messages from or to a device. These checks
ensure that:
• Requests coming from the device to HCM are permitted to access that memory. This means the device
cannot issue a request with a random PA and expect to get access to that location.
• Snoops coming from the device are only for DCM. This means the device cannot issue a request with
arbitrary PA to gain access to a location.
• Snoops going to the device for cached HCM locations only expose accesses that the device is permitted to
observe. This means the device cannot build up a picture of all trusted system activity for more targeted
attacks.
For more information on RME-DA and RME-CDA, see Arm
 Reference Manual for A-profile
architecture.

B10.7.2 Field applicability

Support for RME-DA or RME-CDA at an interface is determined by the DevAssign_Support property. The
property defines if the SecSID1 and StreamID fields are present on that interface.
The applicability of StreamID and SecSID1 fields in relation to the various messages is detailed in this section:
• B10.7.2.1 Device request to HCM location or DCM location of a peer device
• B10.7.2.2 Host request to DCM location
• B10.7.2.3 Device snoop to cached DCM location
• B10.7.2.4 Host snoop to cached HCM location or cached DCM location of a peer device
The omission of a field name indicates that the related field is not applicable in the associated message.


398

B10.7.2.1 Device request to HCM location or DCM location of a peer device
Figure B10.3 shows the fields that are applicable for device requests to HCM memory locations, or to DCM
location of a peer device.

Host
Device

Read
Request
REQ.MECID, or REQ.StreamID and REQ.SecSID1
Completion data
DAT.DBID

Write
Request
REQ.MECID, or REQ.StreamID and REQ.SecSID1
Write data
DAT.DBID

Host
Device

Figure B10.2: RME-CDA fields in device requests to DCM locations


When DevAssign_Support is Device_StreamID_SecSID1, the common field on the REQ channel with StreamID
and MECID is considered as StreamID , regardless of the MEC_Support value.
When the DevAssign_Support property is not Device_StreamID_SecSID1:
When the MEC_Support property is True
The common field on the REQ channel with StreamID and MECID is considered MECID .
When the MEC_Support property is False
Neither StreamID or MECID are applicable.
On the DAT channel, the common field shared by DBID and MECID is considered DBID .
B10.7.2.2 Host request to DCM location
Figure B10.3 shows the fields that are applicable for host requests to DCM memory locations.


Host
Device

Read
Request
REQ.MECID, if MEC_Support = True
Completion data
DAT.DBID

Write
Request
REQ.MECID, if MEC_Support = True
Write data
DAT.DBID

Host
Device

Figure B10.3: RME-CDA fields in host requests to DCM locations


399

On the DAT channel, the common field shared by DBID and MECID is considered DBID .
B10.7.2.3 Device snoop to cached DCM location
Figure B10.3 shows the fields that are applicable for device snoops to DCM memory locations that have been
cached in the host.

Host
Device
Snoop request
SNP.MECID, if stash snoop and MEC_Support is True

alt [No DataPull]
            Snoop data
            DAT.MECID, if MEC_Support is True
[DataPull]
            Snoop data
            DAT.DBID
Host Device
fields in device snoop to cached DCM
request, the common field shared by DBID and
DataPull request, if MEC_Support is True, the
considered MECID .
            or cached DCM location of a
the device and are applicable for host snoops
Host Device
            Snoop request
            SNP.MECID, if stash snoop and MEC_Support is True
alt [No DataPull]
            Snoop data
            DAT.MECID, if MEC_Support is True
[DataPull]
            Snoop data
            DAT.DBID
Figure B10.4: RME-CDA 
snoop to cached DCM locations


For a snoop response with data that includes a DataPull request, the common field shared by DBID and MECID is
considered DBID .
For a snoop response with data that does not include a DataPull request, if MEC_Support is True, the common
field on the DAT channel shared by DBID and MECID is considered MECID .
B10.7.2.4 Host snoop to cached HCM location
DCM location of a peer
device
Figure B10.5 shows the fields that have been cached in the device and are applicable for host snoops to HCM
memory locations, or DCM locations of a peer device.


Host
Device

Figure B10.5: RME-CDA fields in host snoop to cached HCM locations


For a snoop response with data that includes a DataPull request, the common field shared by DBID and MECID is
considered DBID .
If MEC_Support is True, for a snoop response with data that does not include a DataPull request, the common
field on the DAT channel shared by DBID and MECID is considered MECID .

B10.7.3 Component requirements

This section describes the host and device requirements.


400

B10.7.3.1 Host requirements
Table B10.1 shows the host requirements depending on the MEC_Support and DevAssign_Support property
values.

Table B10.1: Host requirements

Scenario MEC_Support Description

Device request to False The
a HCM location
or DCM location
of a peer device


The MECID value can be non-zero.
The MECID value must be zero.
If DPT and GPC checks pass, the MECID value
Stream Table Entry(STE) is used as part
of the request as it progresses into the system.
The MECID value provided continues with the
request as it progresses into the system.

Host request to False Realm
 and Non-secure are the only permitted PAS values.
DCM location


The host must populate the MECID field in the request
with a valid value.
The MECID value must be zero.

Device snoop to a False The
 host must check if the snoop address falls within the address range of the DCM
cached DCM
location

– For a response to a stashing snoop where a DataPull is requested, the host

– Not in the allowed DCM range, the host must terminate the snoop and return a

True All of the False requirements apply, and if the snoop is processed as normal,
          associated SnpRespData response must include:
          – The MECID value, if DataPull is 0. The inclusion of the MECID value in
                 snoop response enables the device to encrypt the data before writing back
                 DCM.
          – The DBID value, if DataPull is 1.

False The host must check if the snoop address falls within the address range of the
            attached to the device sending the snoop.
            If the address is found to be:
            – In the allowed DCM range, the snoop must be processed as normal.
            – For a response to a stashing snoop where a DataPull is requested, the
                      must provide a DBID value.
            – Not in the allowed DCM range, the host must terminate the snoop and return
                      SnpResp_I response to the device.

True All of the False requirements apply, and:
          When PAS is Realm The host must populate the MECID field in the
                                      with a valid value.
          When PAS is Non-secure The MECID value must be zero.

True All of the False requirements apply, and:
          When PAS is Realm The MECID value can be non-zero.
          When PAS is Non-secure The MECID value must be zero.
          When DevAssign_Support = If DPT and GPC checks pass, the MECID
                        Device_StreamID_SecSID1 from the Stream Table Entry (STE) is used as
                                                                      of the request as it progresses into the system.
          When DevAssign_Support = The MECID value provided continues with
                        Device_NoStreamIS_NoSecSID1 request as it progresses into the system.

False The host performs the following checks:
            – A DPT check might be required to check the Security state, indicated by
                       SecSID1, has granted the StreamID with permission to access the physical
                       address.
            – A GPC is required to verify that the request PA and PAS combination is
                       permitted.
            If these checks pass, the request proceeds normally.
            If these checks fail, the host must respond in a protocol-compliant manner. The
            responses are marked as NDERR.
 of the False requirements apply, and if the snoop is processed as normal, any

– The MECID value, if DataPull is 0. The inclusion of the MECID value in the
snoop response enables the device to encrypt the data before writing back to


Continued on next page


401

Table B10.1 –Continued from previous page

Scenario MEC_Support Description

Host snoop to a False The
cached HCM
The host is permitted to forward the snoop, if it specifies
location or
a location that is known to be present in the device cache.
cached DCM
A Home can filter snoops using a tracker to follow device
location of a peer
caching precisely, such as a Snoop Filter.
No checks are required.
IMPLEMENTATION SPECIFIC data values that are
fully poisoned if the host is unable to send a snoop request across the link to the device,
and the host snoop filter tracks the location in the device as being in a Dirty state.
True All
 of the False requirements apply.
If the host issues a stash snoop to the device:
When PAS is Realm The host must populate the MECID field in the request
with a valid value.
When PAS is Non-secure The MECID value must be zero.
In the scenario where the snoop cannot be sent and the host port has to send fully
poisoned data, if the host port cannot associate the response with a correct MECID , it
must use the default MECID value of zero.


B10.7.3.2 Device requirements
Table B10.2 shows the device requirements depending on the MEC_Support and DevAssign_Support property
values.

Table B10.2: Device requirements

Scenario MEC_Support Description

Host request to False No
 additional requirements.
DCM location
True The
 device must use the received MECID value for accessing DCM memory.

False The following requirements apply:
            When DevAssign_Support = The device must populate the StreamID and
                       Device_StreamID_SecSID1 SecSID1 values, when applicable.
            See Table B10.3 for permitted values and relationship between SecSID1 and PAS.
            Note
            StreamID corresponds to the PCIe Requester ID (RID).
            SecSID1 corresponds to the PCIe T bit in TLP.
            When T = 0 Access is Non-secure PAS.
            When T = 1 Access is either Non-secure or Realm PAS.
            When DevAssign_Support != The StreamID , MECID , and SecSID1 fields
                       Device_StreamID_SecSID1 inapplicable and must be driven to zero.

False The following requirements apply:
            When PAS is Realm The host is permitted to forward the snoop, if it
                                           a location that is known to be present in the device
                                           A Home can filter snoops using a tracker to follow
                                                           caching precisely, such as a Snoop Filter.
            When PAS is Non-secure No checks are required.
            The host port must respond with IMPLEMENTATION SPECIFIC data values that are
            fully poisoned if the host is unable to send a snoop request across the link to the
            and the host snoop filter tracks the location in the device as being in a Dirty
Device request to False The
a HCM location
The device must populate the StreamID and
or DCM location
SecSID1 values, when applicable.
of a peer device


Requester ID (RID).

Access is Non-secure PAS.
Access is either Non-secure or Realm PAS.

The StreamID , MECID , and SecSID1 fields are
inapplicable and must be driven to zero.

Continued on next page


402

Table B10.2 –Continued from previous page

Scenario MEC_Support Description

True The
 following requirements apply:
When DevAssign_Support = The device must populate the StreamID and
Device_StreamID_SecSID1 SecSID1 field values, when applicable.
When DevAssign_Support != The device must populate the MECID field with a
Device_StreamID_SecSID1 valid value. The MECID value can be non-zero
when the PAS is Realm. The MECID value must
be zero when PAS is Non-secure.

Device snoop to a False A
 device is expected to send snoops with an address within the DCM address range
cached DCM
 Address range checks in the snoops to the host are also carried out on the host
location
True All
 of the False requirements apply, and if the device issues a stash snoop to the host:
When PAS is Realm The device must populate the MECID field in the request
with a valid value.
When PAS is Non-secure The MECID value must be zero.

Host snoop to a False The
cached HCM
location or
cached DCM
location of a peer

– The MECID value, if DataPull is 0. The inclusion of the MECID value in the
snoop response enables the host to encrypt the data before writing back to HCM.

The permitted values and relationship between various fields is shown in Table B10.3 .
The following key is used:
Y Yes, permitted.
- Not permitted.

True If the snoop response includes data, it must include:
         – The MECID value, if DataPull is 0. The inclusion of the MECID value in
         snoop response enables the host to encrypt the data before writing back to
         – The DBID value, if DataPull is 1.

False The host snoop to a HCM location cached in a device must be processed normally.
            For a response to a stashing snoop where a DataPull is requested, the device
            provide a DBID value.

False A device is expected to send snoops with an address within the DCM address
           only. Address range checks in the snoops to the host are also carried out on the
           side.
403

Table B10.3:
 in a device request to the host
 Field value relationships

SecSID1 Security state PAS
 description Permitted
[2:0] PAS
combination

0b0 Non-Secure 0b000 Secure -
0b001 Non-secure Y
0b010 Root -
0b011 Realm -


0b1 Realm


0b100 System Agent -
0b101 Non-secure Protected -

0b000 Secure -
0b001 Non-secure Y
0b010 Root -
0b011 Realm Y
0b100 System Agent -
0b101 Non-secure Protected -


404