Table B11.8: UnusedPrefetch subfield encoding

DataSource[0]
Description
UnusedPrefetch

0
The cache line could have been used since being fetched.

1 The
 cache line was not used since being fetched.


Note


 Replacement

A Request Node that does not track the usage of the cache line can set the UnusedPrefetch bit value to 0.

B11.3.2.2
The Replacement subfield can take any value in all requests from the Request Node to HN-F, except for the
following, where the subfield is inapplicable and must be zero:
• Atomic*
• Stash transactions, when StashNIDValid is 1
• PrefetchTgt
• PCrdReturn
• DVMOp


DataSource[3:1]
Description


The Replacement subfield can be used to indicate how likely it is that the data being transferred by a Requester
will be used again. A cache that receives this information can use it to bias its own replacement algorithms and
manage replacement more efficiently.
Table B11.9 shows the recommended Replacement subfield encodings.


Replacement

0b000
No recommendation. This is the default value.

0b100
Most likely to be used again.

0b101
More likely to be used again.

0b110
Somewhat likely to be used again.

0b111
Least likely to be used again.

0b011-0b001
Unused.


 CacheLevel
B11.3.2.3

be used to indicate the optimal distance for the data being transferred by a
cache hierarchy. This assists the intentional placement of data by a Producer,
Consumer.
applicable in:

does not track the usage of the cache line can set the UnusedPrefetch bit value
can take any value in all requests from the Request Node to HN-F, except for
      is inapplicable and must be zero:
when StashNIDValid is 1
can be used to indicate how likely it is that the data being transferred by a
      that receives this information can use it to bias its own replacement algorithms
      efficiently.
      recommended Replacement subfield encodings.
                    Table B11.9: Recommended Replacement subfield encodings
The CacheLevel subfield can be used to indicate the optimal distance for the data being transferred by a Requester
to travel into the system cache hierarchy. This assists the intentional placement of data by a Producer, reducing the
access latency seen by a Consumer.
The CacheLevel subfield is applicable in:
• WriteBackPtl


418

• WriteBackFull
• WriteCleanFull
• WriteEvictFull
• WriteEvictOrEvict
• When StashNIDValid is 0:
– StashOnceUnique
– StashOnceShared
– StashOnceSepUnique
– StashOnceSepShared
• WriteNoSnpFull
• WriteNoSnpZero
• WriteUniqueFull


 B11.10: CacheLevel subfield encoding


• WriteUniqueZero
• ReadOnce

Note
Prior to Issue H, the CacheLevel subfield was not applicable in:
• WriteNoSnpFull
• WriteNoSnpZero
• WriteUniqueFull
• WriteUniqueZero
• ReadOnce

The CacheLevel subfield must be 0 in all other requests where the DataTarget field is applicable.
Table B11.10 shows the CacheLevel subfield encodings.

Table


0b00
No hierarchy level information hint provided. The
 MemAttr Allocation hint can
take any value.
MemAttr.CDE must be0b101.

MemAttr.ACDE must be0b1101.

a
0b10 Hint recommending that cache line is propagated down 1 MemAttr .ACDE must be 0b1101 .
        additional cache level.
                                                                                           Continued on next page

0b01 Hint recommending that cache line is placed at this cache MemAttr.ACDE must be 0b1101 .
      level and not propagated any further.

DataSource[5:4] Description MemAttr
CacheLevel
0b10
1 .ACDE must be0b1101.

Continued on next page


419

Table B11.10 –Continued from previous page

a
0b11 Hint recommending that cache line is propagated down 2 MemAttr .ACDE must be 0b1101 .
        additional cache levels.

DataSource[5:4] Description MemAttr
CacheLevel
0b11
2 .ACDE must be0b1101.


a
If the request is propagated to the next level of hierarchy, the CacheLevel subfield value must be reduced by 1.


An implementation is permitted to ignore the hierarchy information indicated by the CacheLevel subfield value.
B11.3.2.4 Unique
The Unique subfield serves as an optional hint indicating that, in addition to allocating the data at a specific cache
level, the data should also be made Unique. The transition to a Unique state might require additional actions, such
as downstream transactions or additional snoops. A proactive state transition initiated by the Producer can help
reduce latency for a Consumer that intends to write to the same location by eliminating the need for
invalidation-based snoop transactions that might otherwise be required.
The Unique subfield is applicable in:
• When StashNIDValid is 0:
– StashOnceUnique
– StashOnceShared


Table B11.11: Unique subfield encodings


– StashOnceSepUnique
– StashOnceSepShared
• WriteEvictOrEvict
• WriteBackFull
• WriteCleanFull
When the CacheLevel subfield is 0, the Unique subfield must be 0.
When then CacheLevel subfield is non-zero, the Unique subfield can be 0 or 1.
The Unique subfield must be 0 in all other requests where the DataTarget is applicable.
Table B11.11 shows the recommended Unique subfield encodings.


DataSource[6]
Description
Unique

0b0
No Unique state hint provided.

0b1
Hint recommending that the cache line is made
Unique at the indicated CacheLevel.


420