The CompleterType subfield encoding additionally determines the encoding space used for the Functional subfield.
The CompleterType subfield must correctly define the associated source, or use the Default encoding. A cache
must not use one of the memory groups, and a memory must not use one of the cache groups.
Cache Snoop Hit must be used for Snoopee caches that provide the data as a result of a CHI Snoop hit.
Any caches that are not covered by this must be grouped into Cache Group 1 or Cache Group 2.
The association of cache or memory types into the remaining groupings IMPLEMENTATION are
 DEFINED .
The CompleterType subfield encodings for memory are shown in Table B11.2 .

Table B11.2: DataSource CompleterType encoding

DataSource[4:2] Architected Recommendation
CompleterType
0b000
Default Default

0b001
Memory Group 1 DRAM

0b010
Memory Group 2 CXL

0b011
Memory Group 3 High
 BW Memory

0b100
Cache Snoop Hit Snoop
 hit (Architected)

0b101
Cache Group 1 System-specific
 interconnect cache

0b110
Cache Group 2 System-specific
 interconnect cache

0b111
Reserved Reserved


B11.2.4 HitD

The DataSource [5] bit is used to transport Hitthe Dirty (HitD) subfield.
If the CompleterType indicates one of the cache encodings, the HitD subfield indicates if the cache line was in a
Dirty state when the cache lookup hit.

Note
Previously, a Requester issuing a transaction such as ReadNotSharedDirty may have seen Shared Clean data
returned, despite the line potentially being in a Unique Dirty state at the Snoopee.
The presence of the information in the HitD subfield helps provide more information to the Requester, which
may be useful for performance analysis.

The HitD encodings are shown in Table B11.3 .

Table B11.3: DataSource HitD encoding

DataSource[5] Description
HitD

0b0
Line was not in a Dirty state at the Completer

Continued on next page


411

Table B11.3 –Continued from previous page

DataSource[5] Description
HitD

0b1
Line was in a Dirty state at the Completer


The HitD subfield is applicable and can be set to 0 or 1 when the CompleterType is one of the cache encodings.
The HitD subfield must be 1 when the CompleterType is one of the cache encodings and the Data response
indicates pass Dirty [_PD].
The HitD subfield is inapplicable and must be zero when the CompleterType is not one of the cache encodings.

B11.2.5 Functional

The DataSource [7:6] bits are used to transport the Functional subfield.
The Functional subfield provides additional information that relates to the CompleterType selection.
A Completer does not need to support all of the Functional encodings for its CompleterType .
There are three types of Functional encodings:
• B11.2.5.1 Default
• B11.2.5.2 Memory
• B11.2.5.3 Cache
B11.2.5.1 Default
When the CompleterType is Default, the encoding of the Functional subfield is shown in Table B11.4 .


DataSource[7:6] Description
Default

0b00
Default - No useful information

0b01
Reserved

0b10
Reserved

0b11
Reserved


B11.2.5.2 Memory

is Memory Group 1, Memory Group 2, or Memory Group 3, the encoding of
in Table B11.5 .
DataSource Functional encoding when CompleterType is a memory encoding

applicable and can be set to 0 or 1 when the CompleterType is one of the cache
       1 when the CompleterType is one of the cache encodings and the Data response
       inapplicable and must be zero when the CompleterType is not one of the cache
are used to transport the Functional subfield.
provides additional information that relates to the CompleterType selection.
to support all of the Functional encodings for its CompleterType .
       Functional encodings:
       Default, the encoding of the Functional subfield is shown in Table B11.4 .
Table B11.4: DataSource Functional encoding when CompleterType is Default
When the CompleterType is Memory Group 1, Memory Group 2, or Memory Group 3, the encoding of the
Functional subfield is shown in Table B11.5 .

Table B11.5: 

DataSource[7:6] Description
Memory

0b00
Default. PrefetchTgt is not useful.
Continued on next page


412

Table B11.5 –Continued from previous page

DataSource[7:6] Description
Memory

Read request went through a complete memory access and did not have
any latency reduction as a result of the PrefetchTgt request being sent
earlier.
The precise reason for signaling that a prefetch was not useful is
IMPLEMENTATION SPECIFIC .


Read data was obtained from the Subordinate with lower latency as the


0b10
Reserved

0b11
Reserved


Note
There are several reasons why the PrefetchTgt request might not be useful, including:
• There was no PrefetchTgt transaction before the actual request.
• The PrefetchTgt was dropped by the Subordinate.
• The data obtained by the PrefetchTgt was replaced in the buffer.
• The Read request arrived at the Subordinate before the PrefetchTgt .

B11.2.5.3 Cache
When the CompleterType is Cache Snoop Hit, Cache Group 1, or Cache Group 2, the encoding of the Functional
subfield is shown in Table B11.6 .

Table B11.6: DataSource Functional encoding when CompleterType is a cache encoding

DataSource[7:6] Description
Cache

0b00
Default. No useful information.


but that cache line has not been used yet or has been written down to a

0b10 Late prefetch.
      The transaction hazarded against the earlier StashOnce* from the
      SrcID. The earlier StashOnce* had to complete before the hazard
      be removed and the data returned.

0b01 Unused prefetch.
      The cache line could have been prefetched earlier by another Requester,
      but that cache line has not been used yet or has been written down
      lower level cache with DataTarget [0] UnusedPrefetch set.

0b01 PrefetchTgt is useful.
      Read data was obtained from the Subordinate with lower latency as
      PrefetchTgt request already read or initiated a read of data from
      memory.
The transaction hazarded against the earlier StashOnce* from the same
SrcID. The earlier StashOnce* had to complete before the hazard could


0b11
Reserved


Unused prefetch can only be seen in applicable data messages that originate from an HN-F, HN-I, or RN-F.


413

Unused prefetch cannot be seen in applicable data messages that originate from an SN-I or SN-F.
Late prefetch can only be seen in applicable data messages that originate from an HN-F.
Late prefetch cannot be seen in applicable data messages that originate from an RN-F, HN-I, SN-F, or SN-I.

B11.2.6 Example system

Figure B11.1 shows an example of a system that is supported by DataSource .

Local socket
Local die
Remote die or chiplet
Cluster 0
Cluster 1
Cluster 0

Processor 1
Cache
A
Processor 0
Cache
Cache

Processor 1
Cache
B
Cache
Processor X
Processor 0
Cache
Processor 0
Processor 1
Processor X
Cache
Cache
Cache
Cache
Cache

Interconnect
Cache
Interconnect
CacheC

High BW
Memory
Processor 0
Cache BW
Processor 0
Cache DDR
Cluster 0
Cache C Interconnect
CXL
Processor 1
Cache
Interconnect Cache
Remote socket
Remote socket
Processor X
Cache
Cache
CXL
High BW 
Memory


Remote socket
Cluster 1

Processor 0 Processor 1
Processor X
Processor 0
D
Cache
Cache
Cache
Cache
Cache

Interconnect
Cache
Interconnect
Cache


DDR
CXL
High BW 
Memory
E
CXL
High BW 
DDR
Memory


Figure B11.1:
 DataSource
 Example system with


In Figure B11.1 , the five points detailed are shown in Table B11.7 from the perspective of Processor 0 in Cluster 0
of the Local die in the Local socket.

Table B11.7: Example system description

Point CompleterDistance CompleterType
 HitD
 Functional

A 0b00, Completer Distance 1 0b100, Cache Snoop Hit 0b0 or 0b1 Any

B 0b01, Completer Distance 2 0b100, Cache Snoop Hit 0b0 or 0b1 Any

, Completer Distance 3 0b101, Cache Group 1 or 0b0
C 0b10
or 0b1 Any
0b110, Cache Group 2

, Completer Distance 4 0b100, Cache Snoop Hit 0b0
D 0b11
or 0b1 Any

, Completer Distance 4 0b001, Memory Group 1 Must
E 0b11
 be 0b0 0b00 or 0b01


414

Chapter B11. System
B11.2. Data

B11.2.7 Driving and modifying DataSource[7:0]

This section describes driving and modifying the DataSource [7:0] flit.
 value
B11.2.7.1 Initial
It is expected that the Completer, driving DataSource when applicable in responses, will set the
CompleterDistance value as if it were communicating to the closest possible Completer Distance.
For example, in Figure B11.1 , this means:
0b00 to,
• Processor 0 within any of the clusters should drive CompleterDistance in any applicable responses
Local cluster.
• Processor X should drive CompleterDistance in any applicable responses 0b01 to , Local die, because it
exists outside of any Local cluster configuration.
All Completers must drive DataSource [7:2] to a legal encoding.
It is recommended, but not required, that when an error is detected, the DataSource value is still driven accurately.
A Completer is permitted to select one of the encodings marked as Default where they exist, instead of one of the

 modification

more defined encodings.
B11.2.7.2 Value
As the DataSource [7:0] value in any applicable response is transported through the system, it is expected that the
CompleterDistance is incremented as the appropriate boundary is crossed.

Note
IMPLEMENTATION
How the CompleterDistance value is modified as packets move through the system is
DEFINED . The modification can include a mixture of pass-through, increment by a fixed value, and set to a
specific value.


0b01 to , Local die. This
For example, in Figure B11.1 , this means:
• Any applicable response crossing the cluster boundary will be incremented
increment is performed by the cluster.


0b11 to , Remote socket. This

• Any applicable response crossing the die or chiplet boundary in the local socket will be incremented to
0b10, Remote die or chiplet. This increment is performed by the die-to-die or chiplet-to-chiplet transmitter.
• Any applicable response crossing the socket boundary will be incremented
increment is performed by the socket-to-socket transmitter.
It is permitted, but not expected, that any changes are made to DataSource [7:2] value when any applicable
response is transported through the system.


 data from two different sources


Home is expected, but not required, to forward the unchanged DataSource value on to the Requester from the
SnpRespData or SnpRespDataPtl response from a Snoopee, or CompData or DataSepResp response from a
Subordinate.
B11.2.7.3 Combining
There are several scenarios where Home has to combine data from multiple sources before sending the CompData
or DataSepResp response back to a Requester:
• A Snoopee has a line in UDP state and another Requester issues a Read for that location. Home is required to
make a memory access to obtain the rest of the line.


ARM IHI
415


– Home is expected to use the Cache Snoop Hit CompleterType encoding when providing the CompData
or DataSepResp response back to the Requester.


 0050

• When MTE is enabled and a Requester issues a Read to obtain data and tags, but the data is only present in a
Snoopee and not in the tags. Home is required to make a memory access to obtain the MTE tags.
– Home is expected to use the Cache Snoop Hit CompleterType encoding when providing the CompData


 value for a cache encoding with both Late and Unused prefetch


or DataSepResp response back to the Requester.
• When Home has a copy of the line in the SLC, but requires access to memory to get the MTE tags.
– Home is expected to use the Cache Group 1 or Cache Group 2 CompleterType encoding when providing
the CompData or DataSepResp response back to the Requester.
B11.2.7.4 Functional
events
There is a scenario where Unused prefetch can be provided to Home in the SnpRespData response from a Snoopee,
whilst Home is also exposed to the Late prefetch event hazarding. In this scenario, Home is expected to use the
Late Prefetch Functional Cache encoding when providing the CompData response to the Requester.


416