B11.4.1 MPAMSP

MPAMSP provides the partition identifier namespace selector.


Table B11.12: MPAMSP encodings

Table B11.12 shows the MPAMSP encodings.


MPAMSP Partition description

00
Secure

01
Non-secure

10
Root

11
Realm

            permitted.
            the full range of partitions and performance monitor
and configuration process, it is expected that the
partitions and the performance monitor groups used match
interface that supports MPAM .
            field values onto an interface that does not support
fields when not supported or not propagated.
Table B11.13: Default values for MPAM subfields
B11.4.2

All combinations of values of MPAMSP and PAS are permitted.

 MPAM value propagation

The Receiver is permitted, but not required, to support the full range of partitions and performance monitor groups
received in the request. During the system discovery and configuration process, it is expected that the capabilities
of the system are discovered and the range of partitions and the performance monitor groups used match the
capabilities of the system.
MPAM field values must be propagated onto an interface that supports MPAM .


Default values for


It is permitted, but not required, to propagate MPAM field values onto an interface that does not support MPAM .
Table B11.13 shows the default values for MPAM fields when not supported or not propagated.

MPAM

MPAM field Value

0
PerfMonGroup

PartID
0

 as the PAS value in the Request or Snoop message, unless the PAS value is
MPAMSP Same
System Agent or Non-secure Protected:
When PAS is System Agent
MPAMSP is set to Root.
When PAS is Non-secure Protected MPAMSP is set to Non-secure.


B11.4.3 Stash transaction rules

MPAM values in Stash snoops must be the same as in the request that generated the snoops.
For responses to Stash snoops, when the response includes a DataPull request, the Home must assume the MPAM


B11.4.4
 rules

values in the DataPull request are the same as in the original Stash request.

 Request to Subordinate

MPAM values in a request to the Subordinate, where the request is generated by a request to the Home, must be
the same as the MPAM values in that request to the Home.


422