• For SnpOnceFwd:
• Permitted to return Dirty tags to the Home.
• Dirty tags must be kept at the Snoopee if the data transfer to Home is not performed.
• Dirty tags must be written back to Home if the cache line is being invalidated or Dirty data is being written
back to Home.


 TagOp values in Snoop responses for more details.


A Snoopee is permitted, but not required, to convert any Forwarding snoop to its corresponding Non-forwarding
snoop.

Note
This property is similar to that in the non-MTE case.

See B12.9.4 Permitted

B12.9.3 Stash snoops

Because the SNP channel does not include a TagOp field, the Home cannot forward the TagOp intentions of the
Requester to the Stash target.


, and in response to SnpUniqueStash.


The permitted TagOp values in Snoop responses are:
• Invalid in response to SnpStash*.
• Invalid, Transfer Update


 TagOp values in Snoop responses for more details.
• Invalid in response to SnpMakeInvalidStash.
See B12.9.4 Permitted
The requirements for determining the TagOp value in the Read request implied from the Data Pull request in the
Snoop response are as follows:
In response to SnpStash*:
Transfer is , it is recommended that Clean tags are returned in
• If the TagOp value in the original request
response to the DataPull request.
• If the TagOp value in the original request Invalid is , it is recommended that Clean tags are returned in
response to the DataPull request if tags are available.
In response to SnpUniqueStash:
• If tags are available when data is returned, irrespective of the presence or absence of data in the Snoop
response and for any cache state, it is recommended that the Clean tags are returned in response to a DataPull


B12.9.4


request.


 values in Snoop responses


In response to SnpMakeInvalidStash:
• If Clean tags are available, it is recommended that they are returned in response to a DataPull request.

 Permitted TagOp

The permitted tag field values in Snoop responses are:
• For SnpResp, the TagOp field is inapplicable and must be zero.
• For SnpRespDataPtl, the permitted TagOp value is Invalid. Both the TU and the Tag field must be set to 0
and ignored by the receiver.
• For SnpRespData:
– Invalid. All Tag fields must be zero.

443

        Chapter B12. Memory Tagging
B12.9. Snoop requests
                              – Transfer . Clean tags must be returned. TU bits are inapplicable and must be zero.
                              – Update . All TU bits must be 1. The data state must include Pass Dirty.
                              – Match . Not permitted.
ARM IHI 0050 Copyright © 2014, 2017-2025 Arm Limited or its affiliates. All rights reserved. 444
Issue H Non-confidential