Chapter B12. Memory
B12.4. Read

ReadPreferUnique with Transfer
*

Note


Transfer with ,

Prior to Issue G, the UC, UD, and UDP initial cache states at the sending of a
ReadPreferUnique were not permitted.
Issue G relaxes this constraint, allowing any start state for ReadPreferUnique
providing a more performant way to obtain MTE tags when the Requester has a Unique copy

Transfer: pessimistic in the presence of other non-exclusive readers,
of the data already, when compared against:
· ReadClean with
where the Requester could always get Shared Clean data returned.
Transfer: unsafe in the presence of exclusives.
· ReadUnique with


Transfer
– It is permitted to use either:
ReadClean with
*
Transfer
ReadUnique with
*
See Table B4.38 for Requester cache state transitions.
When responding to a ReadPreferUnique or ReadClean , a Home that uses a Snoop Filter to track the cached state
at the Requester, must not downgrade the state of the cache line in the Snoop Filter based on the state in the
response to the Requester. That is, the Snoop filter must not change a line previously tracked as:
• Valid, to being tracked as Invalid.
• Unique, to being tracked as Shared.


 responses and tag state


• Dirty, to being tracked as Clean.

Note
Prior to Issue G, UC, UD, or UDP were not permitted initial cache line states for the ReadPreferUnique
transaction. The Home that used a Snoop Filter to track the cached states was permitted to set the state of the
cached line based on the state in the response.

B12.4.1.3 Permitted
The data and state of the cache line received with the Allocation Tags must be appropriately handled to not break
coherency.
Transferis , the permitted response field values are:
When the request TagOp value 
• Transfer. Indicates the returned tags are Clean.
• Update. Indicates the returned tags are Dirty. Data response must pass Dirty [_PD].
Fetchis , the permitted response field values are:
When the request TagOp value 
• Transfer. Indicates the returned tags are Clean.
• Update. Indicates the returned tags are Dirty. Data response must pass Dirty [_PD].
Invalidis , the permitted response field values are:
When the request TagOp value 
• Invalid. Indicates the returned tags are Invalid.
• Transfer. Indicates the returned tags are Clean.
When the TagOp value in Read data is invalid, TU must be all zeros. Tag is inapplicable and can take any value.


ARM IHI 0050
434


When data and response are separately sent in a Read transaction, the TagOp field is only applicable in the
Data-only message. TagOp is inapplicable in the Non-data response message and must be set to 0.

The cache state that the tags must be held in is consistent with the type of the Read request:
• For all Read requests with a TagOp value Invalid of , Invalid or Clean tags must be returned.


Invalid of.


• For ReadNoSnp with a TagOp valueTransfer of or Fetch, Clean tags must be returned.
• For ReadClean , ReadOnce , ReadOnceCleanInvalid , and ReadOnceMakeInvalid with a TagOp value of
Transfer, Clean tags must be returned.
• For ReadNotSharedDirty with a TagOp valueTransfer of , Clean or Dirty tags must be returned. Dirty tags
are permitted to be returned only if the cache line state is Unique.
• For ReadShared with a TagOp valueTransfer of , Clean or Dirty tags must be returned.
• For ReadUnique with a TagOp value Transferof or Fetch, Clean or Dirty tags must be returned. The returned
cache line state must be Unique.
• For MakeReadUnique with a TagOp value Invalidof , Invalid or Clean tags must be returned. Clean tags are
only permitted in responses with data.
• For MakeReadUnique with a TagOp value Transferof , if data is included in the response, Clean or Dirty tags
must be returned.
– Clean tags are permitted in responses with data.
– Dirty tags are only permitted when the response is transferring the responsibility of updating Dirty data,
that is, the response includes [UD_PD].
– Dataless responses using Comp_UC or Comp_SC are permitted to signal Clean tags are being
transferred, despite no Tag transfer occurring.
• In the case where Dirty tags are returned, the cache line returned must include pass Dirty [_PD].
When MTE is not supported for the targeted address, the response must use TagOp
For an Exclusive access sequence, the fetching of tags must avoid any form of request that Invalidates other copies
of the cache line before the Exclusive Store transaction is performed. Typically, this is achieved by fetching tags at
the same time the Exclusive Load transaction is performed.

B12.4.2 Permitted initial MTE tag states

Table B12.2 shows the permitted initial data state along with tag state for different Read transactions and permitted
TagOp value in the corresponding request. The combination of tag and data states must obey the coherency rules
described in B12.3Tag coherency.

Table B12.2: Permitted initial Tag states and request TagOp values in Read transactions

Request TagOp
 Data
 state Tag state

ReadNoSnp
Invalid, Transfer, Fetch I Invalid

ReadNotSharedDirty Invalid, Transfer I, UCE Invalid
ReadShared

ReadOnce Invalid, Transfer I Invalid
ReadOnceMakeInvalid
ReadOnceCleanInvalid
ReadClean
Invalid
I, UCE Invalid
Transfer
I,UCE,UDP Invalid

Continued on next page

435

Table B12.2 –Continued from previous page

Request TagOp
 Data
 state Tag state

SC, UC Invalid, Clean


ReadPreferUnique Invalid

SD, UD Invalid, Clean, Dirty

I,UCE Invalid
SC Invalid,
 Clean


Transfer
SD Invalid,
 Clean, Dirty
I,UCE,UDP Invalid
SC, UC Invalid, Clean


ReadUnique
Invalid, Transfer, Fetch

SD, UD Invalid, Clean, Dirty

I, UCE Invalid
SC, UC Invalid, Clean


MakeReadUnique Invalid

SD, UD Invalid, Clean, Dirty

SC Invalid,
 Clean


Transfer
a
SD Invalid,
 Clean, Dirty
SC Clean
SD Clean,
 Dirty

a
To issue a MakeReadUnique with a TagOp value of Transfer, it is required that the Requester has copies of both the data and the tags.


436