Chapter B13. Link
B13.4. Channel


ARM IHI 0050


• Permitted, but not required, to wait for forward progress on the outbound RSP channel before making
forward progress on the inbound SNP channel.
• Permitted, but not required, to wait for forward progress on the outbound DAT channel before making
forward progress on the inbound SNP channel.
• Must make forward progress on the inbound RSP channel without requiring forward progress on any other
channel.
• Must make forward progress on the inbound DAT channel without requiring forward progress on any other
channel.

Note
The requirement that a Request Node must make forward progress on the inbound RSP and DAT channel,
without requiring forward progress on any other channel, means that a Request Node must be able to accept
all Comp and CompData responses for outstanding transactions without sending any CompAck responses.

For a Subordinate Node:
• Permitted, but not required, to wait for forward progress on the outbound RSP channel before making
forward progress on the inbound REQ channel.
• When Retry_Support is:
– True: Must make forward progress on the inbound REQ channel without requiring forward progress on
the outbound DAT channel.
– RP0_Only: Must make forward progress on the inbound REQ channel for RP0 without requiring
forward progress on the outbound DAT channel. The Subordinate Node is permitted, but not required, to
wait for forward progress on the outbound DAT channel before making forward progress on the inbound
REQ channel for RP1 to RP7.
– False: Permitted, but not required, to wait for forward progress on the outbound DAT channel before
making forward progress on the inbound REQ channel.
• Must make forward progress on the inbound DAT channel without requiring forward progress on any other
channel.


457