Signal Presence
 Description

Table B13.2 –Continued from previous page


REQSHAREDCRD
Shared_Credits_REQ == True Request Shared Credits. Indication
that a REQ shared credit is being


REQLCRDV[(Num_RP_REQ)-1:0] Always. Request

used by the Transmitter.

 L-Credit Valid. The
Receiver sets a bit of the
REQLCRDV signal HIGH to grant
a REQ channel L-Credit for the


REQLCRDSHV
Shared_Credit_REQ == True Request


corresponding RP to the
Transmitter. See B14.2.1L-Credit
flow control.

 Shared L-Credit Valid.
Receiver sets this signal HIGH to
grant a REQ channel shared
L-Credit to the Transmitter.


B13.8.2 Response, RSP, channel

Figure B13.12 shows the RSP channel interface pins, where T is the width RSPFLIT of . The same interface is
used for both inbound and outbound RSP channels.


Transmitter
Receiver

TXRSPFLITPEND RSPFLITPEND RXRSPFLITPEND
TXRSPFLITV RSPFLITV 
RXRSPFLITV
TXRSPFLIT RSPFLIT[(T-1):0]  RXRSPFLIT


TXRSPLCRDV RSPLCRDV  RXRSPLCRDV


Figure B13.12: RSP channel interface pins


Table B13.3 shows the RSP channel interface signals.

Table B13.3: RSP channel interface signals

Signal Presence
 Description

RSPFLITPEND Always. Response Flit Pending. Early indication that a RSP flit
could be transmitted in the following cycle. See B14.4
Flit level clock gating .

RSPFLITV Always. Response Flit Valid. The Transmitter sets this signal
HIGH to indicate when RSPFLIT[(T-1):0] is valid.

Continued on next page


467

Signal Presence

Table B13.3 –Continued from previous page

 Description

RSPFLIT[(T-1):0] Always. Response Flit. See B13.9.2 Response flit for a description
of the RSP flit format.

RSPLCRDV Always. Response L-Credit Valid. The Receiver sets this signal
HIGH to grant a RSP channel L-Credit to a Transmitter.
See B14.2.1 L-Credit flow control .


B13.8.3 Snoop, SNP, channel

Figure B13.13 shows the SNP channel interface pins, where S is the width SNPFLIT of .


Transmitter
Receiver

TXSNPFLITPEND
SNPFLITPEND
RXSNPFLITPEND
TXSNPFLITV
SNPFLITV
RXSNPFLITV
TXSNPFLIT
SNPFLIT[FLIT_WIDTH-1:0]
RXSNPFLIT

TXSNPFLITRP
SNPFLITRP[clog
2 (Num_RP_SNP)-1:0]
RXSNPFLITRP
TXSNPSHAREDCRD
SNPSHAREDCRD
RXSNPSHAREDCRD

TXSNPLCRDV
SNPLCRDV[Num_RP_SNP-1:0]
RXSNPLCRDV

TXSNPLCRDSHV
SNPLCRDSHV
RXSNPLCRDSHV


Figure B13.13: SNP channel interface pins


Table B13.4 shows the SNP channel interface signals.

Table B13.4: SNP channel interface signals

Signal Presence
 Description

SNPFLITPEND
Always. Snoop
 Flit Pending. Early
indication that a SNP flit could be

.
transmitted in the following cycle.
See B14.4 Flit level clock gating

SNPFLITV
Always. Snoop
 Flit Valid. The Transmitter

is valid.
sets this signal HIGH to indicate
when SNPFLIT[(S-1):0]

SNPFLIT[(S-1):0]
Always. Snoop
Snoop flit
 Flit. See B13.9.3
for a description of the SNP flit
format.

Continued on next page


468

Signal Presence
 Description

Table B13.4 –Continued from previous page


SNPLCRDV
Always.
Snoop L-Credit Valid. The Receiver
sets this signal HIGH to grant a
SNP channel L-Credit to a


SNPFLITRP[clog (Num_RP_SNP)-1:0] 2
Num_RP_SNP > 1 Snoop


Transmitter. See B14.2.1L-Credit
flow control.

 Flit Resource Plane
Identifier. Indicates on which RP
SNPFLIT[(R-1):0] is being


SNPSHAREDCRD
Shared_Credits_SNP == True Snoop

transferred.

 Shared Credits. Indication
that a SNP shared credit that is


SNPLCRDV[(Num_RP_SNP)-1:0] Always.

being used by the Transmitter.

Snoop L-Credit Valid. The Receiver
sets a bit of the SNPLCRDV signal
HIGH to grant a SNP channel


SNPLCRDSHV
Shared_Credits_SNP == True Snoop


L-Credit for the corresponding RP
to the Transmitter.

 Shared L-Credit Valid.
Receiver sets this signal HIGH to
grant a SNP channel shared
L-Credit to the Transmitter


B13.8.4 Data, DAT, channel

Figure B13.14 shows the DAT channel interface pins, where D is the width DATFLIT of . The same interface is
used for both inbound and outbound DAT channels.


Transmitter
Receiver

TXDATFLITPEND
 DATFLITPEND RXDATFLITPEND
  
TXDATFLITV
 DATFLITV 
RXDATFLITV
TXDATFLIT DATFLIT[(D-1):0] RXDATFLIT


TXDATLCRDV
 DATLCRDV
RXDATLCRDV
  


 pins
Figure B13.14: DAT channel interface


Table B13.5 shows the DAT channel interface signals.


469

Table B13.5: DAT channel interface signals

Signal Presence
 Description

DATFLITPEND Always. Data Flit Pending. Early indication that a DAT flit could
be transmitted in the following cycle. See B14.4 Flit level
clock gating.

 Flit Valid. The Transmitter sets this signal HIGH to

DATLCRDV Always. Data L-Credit Valid. The Receiver sets this signal
                         to grant a DAT channel L-Credit to a Transmitter. See
                         B14.2.1 L-Credit flow control .

DATFLIT[(D-1):0] Always. Data Flit. See B13.9.4 Data flit for a description of the
                                 DAT flit format.

DATFLITV Always. Data Flit Valid. The Transmitter sets this signal HIGH
                         indicate when DATFLIT[(D-1):0] is valid.
 L-Credit Valid. The Receiver sets this signal HIGH


470