• B13.10.51 Data Identifier, DataID


 Hint, PrefetchTgtHint


• B13.10.52 Byte Enable, BE
• B13.10.53 Data check, DataCheck
• B13.10.54 Poison
• B13.10.55 Data source, DataSource
• B13.10.56 Data Target, DataTarget
• B13.10.57 PrefetchTgt
• B13.10.58 Number of DAT packets elided, NumDat
• B13.10.59 Replicate
• B13.10.60 Reserved for Customer Use, RSVDC
• B13.10.61 Memory Encryption Context Identifier, MECID
• B13.10.62 Stream Identifier, StreamID


B13.10.1
 QoS


• B13.10.63 Stream Identifier Security State, SecSID1
• B13.10.64 MultiReq
• B13.10.65 NumReq

 Quality of Service,

The QoS field is used to assign a Quality of Service (QoS) value to a transaction. Ascending values of QoS

.
indicate higher priority levels.
See B11.1 Quality of Service (QoS) mechanism

B13.10.2 Target Identifier, TgtID

The TgtID field is the node ID of the component to which the message is targeted. This is used by the interconnect
to determine the port to which the message is sent.
.
See B2.4.1 Target Identifier, TgtID, and Source Identifier, SrcID

B13.10.3 Source Identifier, SrcID

The SrcID field is the node ID of the component from which the message is sent. This is used by the interconnect
to determine the port from which the message is sent.
.
See B2.4.1 Target Identifier, TgtID, and Source Identifier, SrcID

B13.10.4
 HomeNID
 Home Node Identifier,

The HomeNID field is associated with the original request. The Requester uses the value in this field to determine
the TgtID of the CompAck to be sent in response to CompData.
The HomeNID field is applicable in CompData and DataSepResp.


.
The HomeNID field is inapplicable and must be zero in all other Data messages.
See B2.4.11 Home Node Identifier, HomeNID

B13.10.5
 ReturnNID
 Return Node Identifier,

The ReturnNID field identifies the node to which the Subordinate sends a CompData, DataSepResp, or a Persist
response. This field also indicates the node to which the Subordinate sends DBIDResp when DoDWT = 1. The
value can be either the node ID of Home or the Requester that originated the transaction.


.


The ReturnNID field is applicable from Home to Subordinate in ReadNoSnp , ReadNoSnpSep ,
CleanSharedPersistSep, WriteNoSnp , WriteNoSnpDef , Combined Write, and Atomic requests.
The ReturnNID field is inapplicable and must be zero for all other requests. For Stash requests, the same bits in the
packet are used for StashNID .
See B2.4.10 Return Node Identifier, ReturnNID

478

B13.10.6 Forward Node Identifier, FwdNID

The FwdNID field identifies the Requester to which the CompData response can be forwarded. The value must be
the node ID of the Requester that initiated the transaction.
The FwdNID field is applicable in Forward-type snoops.
The FwdNID field is inapplicable and must be zero in all other Snoop requests, except range-based TLBI DVM


.


operations.
In range-based TLBI DVM operations, the bits in the field are used for DVM payload.
See B2.4.12 Forward Node Identifier, FwdNID

B13.10.7
 Identifier, LPID
 Logical Processor

The LPID field is used when a single Requester contains more than one logically separate processing agent. The
SrcID is used with LPID to uniquely identify the LP that generated the request.
The LPID field must be set to the correct value for the following transactions:
• For any Non-snoopable Non-cacheable or Device access:
– ReadNoSnp
– WriteNoSnp
– WriteNoSnpDef
• For Exclusive accesses, that can be one of the following transaction types:


for further details.


– ReadClean
– ReadShared
– ReadNotSharedDirty
– ReadPreferUnique
– MakeReadUnique
– CleanUnique
– ReadNoSnp
– WriteNoSnp
See Chapter B6Exclusive accesses
In requests, when applicable, the same bits in the packet are used for TagGroupID , PGroupID , and StashGroupID .
For other transactions, the LPID field value is permitted, but not required, to indicate the original LP that caused a

.
transaction to be issued.
See B2.4.7 Logical Processor Identifier, LPID

B13.10.8 Persistence Group Identifier, PGroupID

The PGroupID field is used by a Requester to identify and process different sets of CleanSharedPersistSep
transactions by grouping them together.
The PGroupID field is applicable in the CleanSharedPersistSep and Write*CleanShPerSep requests and the Persist
and CompPersist responses.
The PGroupID field is inapplicable and must be zero in all other requests and responses.
In requests, when applicable, the same bits in the packet are used for LPID , TagGroupID , and StashGroupID .
In responses, when applicable, the same bits in the packet are used for DBID , TagGroupID , and StashGroupID .

479

See B2.4.13 Persistence Group Identifier, PGroupID .

B13.10.9
 Identifier, StashNID
 Stash Node

The StashNID field identifies the target of the Stash request. The StashNID field provides a valid stash target value
when the corresponding StashNIDValid bit is 1.
The StashNID field is applicable in Stash requests.


.


The StashNID field is inapplicable and must be zero for all other requests.
For ReadNoSnp and ReadNoSnpSep requests, the same bits in the packet are used for ReturnNID .
See B7.4 Stash target identifiers

B13.10.10 Stash Node Identifier Valid, StashNIDValid

The StashNIDValid field indicates if the StashNID field has a valid value.
The StashNIDValid field is applicable in Stash requests.
The StashNIDValid field is inapplicable and must be zero in all other requests.


Table B13.10: StashNIDValid value encodings

Table B13.10 shows the StashNIDValid value encodings.


StashNIDValid Description

0b0
StashNID field value is inapplicable and must be zero

0b1
StashNID field in the Request has a valid Stash target


.
For permitted combinations of StashNIDValid and StashLPIDValid, see Table B7.3 .
See B7.4 Stash target identifiers

B13.10.11 Stash Logical Processor Identifier, StashLPID

The StashLPID field provides a valid LP target value within the Request Node specified by StashNID .
The StashLPID field is applicable in Stash requests and Stash Snoop requests.
For ReadNoSnp requests, the same bits in the packet are used for ReturnTxnID .
The StashLPID field is inapplicable and must be zero in all other requests and snoop requests.


.

For Forwarding snoops, the same bits in the packet are used for FwdTxnID and for SnpDVMOp snoops the same
bits in the packet are used for VMIDExt .
See B7.4 Stash target identifiers

B13.10.12 Stash Logical Processor Identifier Valid, StashLPIDValid

The StashLPIDValid field indicates if the StashLPID field has a valid value.
The StashLPIDValid field is applicable in Stash requests and Stash snoop requests.
The StashLPIDValid field is inapplicable and must be zero in all other requests and snoop requests.
Table B13.11 shows the StashLPIDValid value encodings.


480

Table B13.11: StashLPIDValid value encodings

StashLPIDValid Description

0b0
StashLPID field value is inapplicable and must be zero

0b1
StashLPID field in the Request has a valid Stash target


For permitted combinations of StashLPIDValid and StashNIDValid, see Table B7.3 .
Stash target identifiers .
See B7.4

B13.10.13 Group Identifier, StashGroupID
 Stash

The StashGroupID field is used by a Requester to identify and process different sets of StashOnceSep transactions
by grouping them together.
The StashGroupID field is applicable only in the StashOnceSep request and StashDone response.


Stash Group Identifier, StashGroupID .


The StashGroupID field is inapplicable and must be zero in all other requests and responses.
In requests, when applicable, the same bits in the packet are used for LPID , TagGroupID , and PGroupID .
In responses, when applicable, the same bits in the packet are used for DBID , TagGroupID , and PGroupID .
See B2.4.14

B13.10.14 Transaction Identifier, TxnID

The TxnID field provides the transaction ID of the message. When there are multiple outstanding transactions
from a given source node they will each use a unique transaction ID.


Transaction Identifier, TxnID .
The TxnID in LCRdReturn must be zero.
See B2.4.2

B13.10.15 Return Transaction Identifier, ReturnTxnID

The ReturnTxnID field identifies the value that the Subordinate must use in the TxnID field of the CompData and
DataSepResp response.
The ReturnTxnID field can be either the TxnID generated by Home for this transaction or the TxnID in the
Request packet from the Requester that originated the transaction.
The ReturnTxnID field is applicable only in ReadNoSnp , ReadNoSnpSep , WriteNoSnp , WriteNoSnpDef ,


Return Transaction Identifier, ReturnTxnID


Combined Write, and Atomic requests from Home to Subordinate.
The ReturnTxnID field is inapplicable and must be zero for all other requests.
For Stash requests, the same bits in the packet are used for StashLPID .
See B2.4.4
.

B13.10.16 Forwarding Transaction Identifier, FwdTxnID

The FwdTxnID field identifies the TxnID field of the original request associated with the Snoop transaction.
The FwdTxnID field is applicable in Forward-type snoops.
The FwdTxnID field is inapplicable and must be zero in all other Snoop requests.
For Stash snoops, the same bits in the packet are used for StashLPID .
For SnpDVMOp snoops, the same bits in the packet are used for VMIDExt .

481

See B2.4.5 Forward Transaction Identifier, FwdTxnID .

B13.10.17
 DBID
 Data Buffer Identifier,

response
The DBID field is used for the TxnID field for CompAck or WriteData sent from the Requester in the 
packet from a Completer.
Data Pull
In Snoop responses with Data Pull, the DBID value indicates the value to be used in the TxnID field of 
response messages.


.

In responses, when applicable, the same bits in the packet are used for PGroupID , StashGroupID , and
TagGroupID.
See B2.4.3 Data Buffer Identifier, DBID

B13.10.18 Channel opcodes, Opcode

The Opcode field specifies the operation to be carried out. The Opcode field encodings are specific to each channel.
The encodings for each channel are:
• B13.10.18.1 REQ channel opcodes
• B13.10.18.2 RSP channel opcodes
• B13.10.18.3 SNP channel opcodes

 opcodes

• B13.10.18.4 DAT channel opcodes
B13.10.18.1 REQ channel
Table B13.12 shows the opcodes for the Request channel.

Table B13.12: REQ channel opcodes

             Request command
Opcode[5:0]
             Opcode[6] = 0 Opcode[6] = 1
= 0
= 1

0x00
ReqLCrdReturn Reserved

0x01
ReadShared MakeReadUnique

0x02
ReadClean WriteEvictOrEvict

0x03
ReadOnce WriteUniqueZero

0x04
ReadNoSnp WriteNoSnpZero

0x05
PCrdReturn Reserved

Reserved Reserved
0x06

ReadUnique StashOnceSepShared
0x07

CleanShared StashOnceSepUnique
0x08

0x09
CleanInvalid Reserved

0x0A
MakeInvalid Reserved

0x0B
CleanUnique Reserved

0x0C
MakeUnique ReadPreferUnique

0x0D
Evict CleanInvalidPoPA

0x0E
CleanInvalidStorage WriteNoSnpDef

Continued on next page

482

 
 flit fields

             Request command
Opcode[5:0]
             Opcode[6] = 0 Opcode[6] = 1
0x0F

0x10

0x11

0x12

0x13

0x14

0x15

0x16

0x17

0x18

0x19

0x1A

0x1B

0x1C

0x1D

0x1E

0x1F

0x20

0x21

0x22

0x23

0x24

0x25

0x26

0x27

0x28 - 0x2F

0x30
0x31
0x32
0x33 - 0x37

0x38

0x39


Copyright © 2014,


Table B13.12 –Continued from previous page


Reserved Reserved

Reserved WriteNoSnpFullCleanSh

ReadNoSnpSep WriteNoSnpFullCleanInv

Reserved WriteNoSnpFullCleanShPerSep

CleanSharedPersistSep Reserved

DVMOp WriteUniqueFullCleanSh

WriteEvictFull Reserved

Reserved WriteUniqueFullCleanShPerSep

WriteCleanFull WriteUniqueFullCleanInvStrg

WriteUniquePtl WriteBackFullCleanSh

WriteUniqueFull WriteBackFullCleanInv

WriteBackPtl WriteBackFullCleanShPerSep

WriteBackFull WriteBackFullCleanInvStrg

WriteNoSnpPtl WriteCleanFullCleanSh

WriteNoSnpFull Reserved

Reserved WriteCleanFullCleanShPerSep

Reserved Reserved

WriteUniqueFullStash WriteNoSnpPtlCleanSh

WriteUniquePtlStash WriteNoSnpPtlCleanInv

StashOnceShared WriteNoSnpPtlCleanShPerSep

StashOnceUnique Reserved

ReadOnceCleanInvalid WriteUniquePtlCleanSh

ReadOnceMakeInvalid Reserved

ReadNotSharedDirty WriteUniquePtlCleanShPerSep

CleanSharedPersist Reserved

AtomicStore Reserved

AtomicLoad WriteNoSnpPtlCleanInvPoPA
WriteNoSnpFullCleanInvPoPA
WriteNoSnpFullCleanInvStrg


AtomicSwap Reserved

AtomicCompare WriteBackFullCleanInvPoPA


 2017-2025 Arm Limited or its affiliates. All rights reserved.


Reserved


Continued on next page

483

Table B13.12 –Continued from previous page


0x3A
PrefetchTgt Reserved

0x3B - 0x3F Reserved Reserved


Table B13.13 shows the sub-opcodes for AtomicStore and AtomicLoad .

Opcode[5:3] Opcode[2:0] Operation
AtomicStore AtomicLoad

shows the sub-opcodes for AtomicStore and AtomicLoad .
                             Table B13.13: Sub-opcodes for AtomicStore and AtomicLoad

             Request command
Opcode[5:0]
             Opcode[6] = 0 Opcode[6] = 1
101 110
 000
ADD

001
CLR
010
EOR
011
SET
100
SMAX
101
SMIN
110
UMAX
111
UMIN


B13.10.18.2 RSP channel opcodes
Table B13.14 shows the opcodes for the Response channel.

Table B13.14: RSP channel opcodes

Opcode[4:0] Response

0x00
RespLCrdReturn

0x01
SnpResp

0x02
CompAck

0x03
RetryAck

0x04
Comp

0x05
CompDBIDResp

0x06
DBIDResp

0x07
PCrdGrant

0x08
ReadReceipt

0x09
SnpRespFwded

Continued on next page


484

Table B13.14 –Continued from previous page

Opcode[4:0] Response

0x0A


 0x13


TagMatch

0x0B
RespSepData

0x0C
Persist

0x0D
CompPersist

0x0E
DBIDRespOrd

0x0F
Reserved

0x10
StashDone

0x11
CompStashDone

0x12 -
Reserved

0x14
CompCMO

0x15 - 0x1B Reserved
®
0x1C - 0x1F Reserved for C2C use. See AMBA
CHI Chip-to-Chip (C2C)
Architecture Specification


B13.10.18.3 SNP channel opcodes
Table B13.15 shows the opcodes for the Snoop channel.

 channel opcodes
Table B13.15: SNP

 Snoop
Opcode[4:0]
 command

0x00
SnpLCrdReturn

0x01
SnpShared

0x02
SnpClean

0x03
SnpOnce

0x04
SnpNotSharedDirty

0x05
SnpUniqueStash

0x06
SnpMakeInvalidStash

0x07
SnpUnique

0x08
SnpCleanShared

0x09
SnpCleanInvalid

0x0A
SnpMakeInvalid

0x0B
SnpStashUnique

0x0C
SnpStashShared

Continued on next page


485

Table B13.15 –Continued from previous page

Opcode[4:0] Snoop command

0x0D

 0x0F

SnpDVMOp

0x0E -
Reserved

0x10
SnpQuery

0x11
SnpSharedFwd

0x12
SnpCleanFwd

0x13
SnpOnceFwd

0x14


 0x1F


SnpNotSharedDirtyFwd

0x15
SnpPreferUnique

0x16
SnpPreferUniqueFwd

0x17
SnpUniqueFwd

0x18 -
Reserved


B13.10.18.4 DAT channel opcodes
Table B13.16 shows the opcodes for the Data channel.

 channel opcodes
Table B13.16: DAT

 Data
Opcode[3:0]
 command

0x0
DataLCrdReturn

0x1
SnpRespData

0x2
CopyBackWriteData

0x3
NonCopyBackWriteData

0x4
CompData

0x5
SnpRespDataPtl

0x6
SnpRespDataFwded

0x7
WriteDataCancel

0x8 - 0xA Reserved
                      Continued on next page
486

Table B13.16 –Continued from previous page

Opcode[3:0] Data command

0xB
DataSepResp

0xC
NonCopyBackWriteDataCompAck
®
0xD
Reserved for C2C use. See AMBA
CHI Chip-to-Chip (C2C)
Architecture Specification

0xE - 0xF Reserved


B13.10.19 Deep persistence, Deep

The Deep field is used by the Requester to indicate that writes must have been written to the final destination
before the Completer can provide certain responses.
The Deep field is applicable in the CleanSharedPersist* request and Combined Write request with
CleanSharedPersistSep.
The Deep field is inapplicable and must be zero in all other requests.
When the Deep field is 0:
• All earlier writes must have reached the PoP before the Completer can send:
– Comp for a CleanSharedPersist transaction
– Persist or CompPersist for a CleanSharedPersistSep transaction
• The PoP is the point at which it is guaranteed that sufficient time is available to make the data persistent after


B13.10.20


loss of power.
When the Deep field is 1:
• All earlier writes must have been written to the final destination, as well as the PoP, before the Completer can
send:
– Comp for a CleanSharedPersist transaction
– Persist or CompPersist for a CleanSharedPersistSep transaction
• The final destination is the point at which no time is required to make the data persistent after the loss of
power. If battery failure occurs, this ensures data preservation.
See Table B2.7 for more information on response ordering guarantees.

 Address, Addr

The Addr field specifies the address associated with the message.
A PA of 44 to 52 bits is supported. The address is carried in Addr field in the REQ and SNP channels.
The width of the Addr field is defined by the Req_Addr_Width parameter. The Addr field width is the same value
of the parameter in REQ channel, Addr[(43-51):0], and is three less than the parameter value in the SNP channel,
Addr[(43-51):3].
The Addr field is utilized in the REQ and SNP channels in the following manner:


487


• For Read, PrefetchTgt , Dataless, Write, and Atomic* transactions, the Addr field includes the address of the
memory location being accessed. This starts with Addr[0] mapped to bit 0 of Addr.
• For a snoop request, except SnpDVMOp, the Addr field includes the address of the location being snooped.
This starts with Addr[3] mapped to bit 0 of Addr.

– Addr[(43-51):6] is the cache line address. It is sufficient to uniquely identify the cache line to be
accessed by the snoop.
Critical Chunk
– Addr[5:4] identifies the critical chunk being accessed by the transaction. See B2.9.7
. It is recommended that the snooped cache returns the data in wrap order with the critical
Identifier
chunk returned first.

Note


DVM Operations


Addr[3] in the REQ channel, that is Addr[0] in SNP channel, is supplied but is not used by a
snoop request.

• For a DVMOp and SnpDVMOp request, the Addr field is used to carry information related to a DVM
operation. See Chapter B8
.


.
• The Addr field value is not used for the PCrdReturn transaction and must be zero.
See B2.8.1 Address

B13.10.21 Size of transaction data, Size

The Size field specifies the size of the data associated with the transaction.


Table B13.17: Size field value encodings

Table B13.17 shows the Size field value encodings.


Size[2:0] Bytes

0b000
1

0b001
2

0b010
4

0b011
8

0b100
16

0b101
32

0b110
64

0b111
Reserved


.
Each data message in a multi-request transaction has an effective Size of 64-bytes.
See B2.9.1 Data size

B13.10.22 Memory Attribute, MemAttr

The MemAttr field is associated with the transaction.
Table B13.18 shows the MemAttr value encodings.


488

Table B13.18: MemAttr value encodings

MemAttr[3:0] Name Description
0b0 0b1


See B2.8.3 Memory Attributes.

B13.10.23
 SnpAttr
 Snoop Attribute,

The SnpAttr field specifies the snoop attribute associated with the transaction.
Table B13.19 shows the SnpAttr value encodings.

 SnpAttr value encodings
Table B13.19:

SnpAttr Description


See B2.8.6 Snoop attribute.

      DoDWT
──── ───────────── ── ────────────── ─────────────── ───── ──────────────
      WriteNoSnpPtl , WriteNoSnpFull , WriteNoSnpDef , and Combined Write
must be zero in all other requests.

0b1 Snoopable
     An HN-F receiving this request might need to
     send appropriate snoops to any RN-F nodes that
     could have the cache line.
     This could implicate all, certain, or no RN-F
     nodes, if the HN-F does not have a snoop filter.
     Snoops are not required as a result of CopyBack
              transactions.
     The response given by an HN-I receiving this
     request is detailed in B16.1.17
              Nonshareable_Cache_Maint .

0b0 Non-snoopable
     An HN-F receiving this request is not expected,
     but is permitted, to snoop any RN-F nodes.

[0] EWA This bit specifies the Early Write EWA not permitted. EWA permitted.
                   Acknowledge (EWA) status for the
                   transaction.

[1] Device This bit indicates if the memory type Normal memory Device memory type.
                           associated with the transaction is Device ortype.
                  Normal.

[2] Cacheable This bit indicates a Cacheable transaction Non-cacheable. Cacheable. Looking
               for which the cache, when present, must be Looking up a cache up a cache is
               looked up in servicing the transaction. is not required. required.

[3] Allocate This bit indicates whether or not the cache It is recommended It is recommended
                    receiving the transaction is recommended that the cache line is that the cache line is
                    to allocate the transaction. not allocated. allocated.
B13.10.24
 Transfer, 
 Do Direct Write

The DoDWT field is applicable in WriteNoSnpPtl , WriteNoSnpFull , WriteNoSnpDef , and Combined Write
requests from Home to Subordinate.
The DoDWT field is inapplicable and must be zero in all other requests.


489

The DoDWT field shares the same bits in the packet as SnpAttr .
Table B13.20 shows the DoDWT value encodings.

Table B13.20: DoDWT value encodings

DoDWT DBIDResp. TgtID value DBIDResp.
TxnID value

0b0
Set to the SrcID value of the request Set to TxnID value in the request

0b1
Set to the ReturnNID value in the request Set to ReturnTxnID value in the request


See B2.3.2.1 Immediate Write and B2.3.2.4 Combined Immediate Write and CMO .

B13.10.25 Likely Shared, LikelyShared

The LikelyShared field indicates whether the requested data is likely to be shared with another Request Node.
Table B13.21 shows the LikelyShared field value encodings.

Table B13.21: LikelyShared value encodings

LikelyShared Description

0b0
Not likely to be shared by another Request Node

0b1
Likely to be shared by another Request Node


See B2.8.5 Likely Shared.
It is recommended, but not required, that the LikelyShared field is used to indicate the initial cache line state in
WriteEvictOrEvict transactions. See Table B4.14 for more information.

B13.10.26 Ordering requirements, Order

The Order field specifies the ordering requirements for a transaction.
Table B2.9 shows the Order field value encodings.
The following key is used:
- Not applicable.

Table B13.22: Order value encodings

Order[1:0] Description
 Permitted
 between Permitted
 for
Multi-request

0b00
No ordering required All Yes

0b01
Request accepted HN-F
 to SN-F, and HN-I to SN-I Yes
Reserved RN
 to HN -
a
0b10
Request Order or OWO RN to HN
Yes
Request Order HN-I
 to SN-I Yes

Continued on next page


490

Table B13.22 –Continued from previous page

Order[1:0] Description
 Permitted
 between Permitted
 for
Multi-request

Reserved HN-F
 to SN-F -

0b11
Endpoint Order RN
 to HN, and HN-I to SN-I -
Reserved HN-F
 to SN-F -

a
Request Order when ExpCompAck = 0. OWO when ExpCompAck = 1.


See B2.7 Ordering for more information on the ordering requirements.

B13.10.27 Exclusive, Excl

The Excl field indicates that the corresponding transaction is an Exclusive-type transaction.
The Exclusive bit must only be used with the following transactions:
• ReadNotSharedDirty
• ReadShared
• ReadClean
• ReadPreferUnique
• CleanUnique


Table B13.23: Excl value encodings


• MakeReadUnique
• ReadNoSnp
• WriteNoSnp
Table B13.23 shows the Excl value encodings.


Excl Description

0b0
Normal transaction

0b1
Exclusive transaction


See B6.3 Exclusive transactions.

B13.10.28 CopyAtHome, CAH

The CAH field indicates in:

has a copy of the cache line that is provided
modified the line or MTE tags since Home
• Responses from a Home or a Snoopee, whether the Home has a copy of the cache line that is provided to the
Requester.
• CopyBack requests to Home, the Requester has not modified the line or MTE tags since Home indicated
keeping a copy of the line.


491

The CAH attribute does not affect the normal operation of the Requester regarding Clean or Dirty lines. The CAH
field is only used to influence whether a data transfer is required when executing a CopyBack transaction.
The CAH field is applicable and can take any value in:
• All CopyBack and Combined CopyBack Write requests, except WriteBackPtl
• CompData and DataSepResp responses to the Requester


CopyBack Write and B2.8.8 CopyAtHome attribute for more information.


• SnpRespData and SnpRespDataFwded
The CAH field is applicable and must be zero in:
• WriteBackPtl
• SnpRespDataPtl
The CAH field is inapplicable and must be zero in all other messages.
See B2.3.2.3

B13.10.29 Page-based Hardware Attribute, PBHA

IMPLEMENTATION for DEFINED
The PBHA field carries 4 bits from the translation tables that can be used
hardware control.
PBHA support on an interface is defined by the PBHA_Support property. See B16.1.19 PBHA_Support.
When PBHA is supported, the PBHA field is present:
• On the REQ channel. The PBHA field is applicable in all requests, except for DVMOp and PCrdReturn
where it is inapplicable and must be zero.
• On the DAT channel. The PBHA field is only applicable in SnpRespData, SnpRespDataPtl, and
SnpRespDataFwded. The PBHA field is inapplicable and must be zero in all other DAT messages.


Page-based Hardware Attributes .


• On the SNP channel. The PBHA field is only applicable in Stash snoops. The PBHA field is inapplicable
and must be set to 0 in all Non-stash snoops.
The PBHA field is not present in RSP channel.
See B11.5

B13.10.30 Endian

The Endian field indicates the endianness of Data in an Atomic transaction.
The Endian field is applicable in Atomic requests.
The Endian field is inapplicable in all other requests and must be zero.


Table B13.24: Endian value encodings

Table B13.24 shows the Endian value encodings.


Endian Description

0b0
Little Endian

0b1
Big Endian


See B2.9.6.3 Endianness.


492

B13.10.31 Allow Retry, AllowRetry

The AllowRetry field specifies that the request is being sent without a P-Credit and that the Completer can
determine if a retry response is given.
The ability for the Completer to give a retry response depends on the value of the Retry_Support property.
Table B13.25 shows the AllowRetry value encodings.

Table B13.25: AllowRetry value encodings

AllowRetry Description

0b0
RetryAck response not permitted

0b1
RetryAck response permitted


See B2.10 Request Retry.

B13.10.32 Expect Completion Acknowledge, ExpCompAck

The ExpCompAck field indicates that the transaction includes a CompAck response.
Table B13.26 shows the ExpCompAck value encodings.

Table B13.26: ExpCompAck value encodings

ExpCompAck Description


0b1
Transaction includes a CompAck response

the ExpCompAck field cannot be used in isolation to determine
the transaction flow selected by Home determines if a CompAck
more information.
Home must determine whether to send a snoop to the Requester.
Atomic requests from an RN-F when SnpAttr is 1.
must be 0 in:
when SnpAttr is 0.
HN-F, and HN-I.
encodings.

0b0 Transaction does not include a CompAck
     response
For CopyBack Write transactions, when the ExpCompAck field cannot be used in isolation to determine if a
CompAck is included in the transaction, the transaction flow selected by Home determines if a CompAck is
required. See B2.3.2.3CopyBack Write

B13.10.33 SnoopMe

The SnoopMe field indicates that the Home must determine whether to send a snoop to the Requester.
The SnoopMe field is applicable in Atomic requests from an RN-F when SnpAttr is 1.
The SnoopMe field is inapplicable and must be 0 in:
• Atomic requests from an RN-F when SnpAttr is 0.
• Requests from an RN-D, RN-I, HN-F, and HN-I.
Table B13.27 shows the SnoopMe value encodings.


493

Table B13.27: SnoopMe value encodings

SnoopMe Description

The Home is permitted, but not required, to send a
snoop to the Requester.

The Home must send a Snoop to the Requester if
the cache line could be present at the Requester.


See B2.3.3 Atomic transactions.

B13.10.34
 RetToSrc
 Return to Source,

The RetToSrc field requests the Snoopee to return a copy of the cache line to the Home.
The RetToSrc field is inapplicable and must be zero in:
• SnpCleanShared, SnpCleanInvalid, and SnpMakeInvalid
• SnpOnceFwd and SnpUniqueFwd
• SnpMakeInvalidStash, SnpStashUnique, and SnpStashShared


B13.10.35


• SnpQuery
The RetToSrc field is applicable and can take any value in all other snoops, except SnpDVMOp where it is
inapplicable and must be zero.
See B4.9 Returning Data with Snoop response

 Data Pull, DataPull

The DataPull field indicates the inclusion of a Read request, also referred to as a Data Pull, in the Snoop response.
The DataPull field is applicable in SnpResp, SnpRespData, and SnpRespDataPtl response to a Stash request.
The DataPull field is inapplicable in all other Snoop responses and must be zero.


B13.28: DataPull


When the DataPull field is set in a SnpRespData message, it must be set in all packets of that data response
message.
Table B13.28 shows the DataPull field value encodings.


DataPull Description
 Comment

Indicates that a Data Pull is not required as
a result of the Snoop response

0b1 Read Indicates that a Data Pull is required as
                     result of the Snoop response

0b0 No read Indicates that a Data Pull is not required
              a result of the Snoop response

          to return a copy of the cache line to the Home.
must be zero in:
          and SnpMakeInvalid
          and SnpStashShared
can take any value in all other snoops, except SnpDVMOp where it
response .
          of a Read request, also referred to as a Data Pull, in the Snoop
SnpResp, SnpRespData, and SnpRespDataPtl response to a Stash request.
all other Snoop responses and must be zero.
          SnpRespData message, it must be set in all packets of that data
value encodings.
                                                       Table B13.28: DataPull value encodings

0b1 The Home must send a Snoop to the Requester
     the cache line could be present at the Requester.

0b0 The Home is permitted, but not required, to send
     snoop to the Requester.
 that a Data Pull is required as a
result of the Snoop response


.
See B7.1.1 Snoop requests and Data Pull

B13.10.36 Do not transition to SD state, DoNotGoToSD

The DoNoGoToSD field is an attribute in a Snoop request indicating whether a Snoopee is required to not
transition to SD state.
The DoNoGoToSD field is applicable and can take any value in:

494

• SnpOnce, SnpOnceFwd
• SnpClean, SnpCleanFwd
• SnpNotSharedDirty, SnpNotSharedDirtyFwd
• SnpShared, SnpSharedFwd
• SnpPreferUnique, SnpPreferUniqueFwd
The DoNoGoToSD field is applicable and must be 1 in:
• SnpStashShared, SnpStashUnique
• SnpUnique, SnpUniqueFwd. SnpUniqueStash


Table B13.29: DoNotGoToSD value encodings


• SnpCleanShared
• SnpCleanInvalid
• SnpMakeInvalid, SnpMakeInvalidStash
The DoNoGoToSD field is inapplicable and must be zero in:
• SnpQuery
• SnpDVMOp
Table B13.29 shows the DoNotGoToSD value encodings.


DoNotGoToSD Description

0b0
Permitted to transition to SD state.

Transitioning to SD state is not permitted.
If already in SD state, must exit SD state in response to
the snoop, except for SnpStash*.
The bit value can be ignored by the Snoopee if the Snoop
request is SnpOnce or SnpOnceFwd.


.
See B4.10 Do not transition to SD

B13.10.37 Protocol Credit Type, PCrdType

granted or returned.
         Table B13.30: PCrdType value encodings

0b1 Transitioning to SD state is not permitted.
     If already in SD state, must exit SD state in response
     the snoop, except for SnpStash*.
     The bit value can be ignored by the Snoopee if the
     request is SnpOnce or SnpOnceFwd.
The PCrdType field indicates the type of credit being granted or returned.


B13.30:

Table B13.30 shows the PCrdType value encodings.

PCrdType

PCrdType Description

0b0000 - P-Credit type 0 to 15 respectively
0b1111


B13.10.38
 TagOp

See Table B13.30 .

 Tag Operation,

The TagOp field indicates the operation to be performed on the tags present in the corresponding DAT channel.
Table B13.31 shows the TagOp value encodings.


495

Table B13.31: TagOp value encodings

TagOp[1:0] Tag Operation Description

0b00 Invalid
The tags are not valid


0b11

Fetch
       – Tags must be fetched.
       – All tags must be fetched.
       – Permitted, but not required, to fetch valid
       data.

Match
       – The Physical Tags in the write must be
       checked against the Allocation Tag values
       obtained from memory.
       – The Match Tag operation must be enabled
       for only those tags that have BE = 1.
       – TU field is not applicable and must be zero.

0b10 Update
              – The Allocation Tag values have been
              updated and are Dirty.
              – The Tags in memory should be updated.
              Only the Tags that have TU = 1 must be
                       updated.

0b01 Transfer
                – The tags are Clean.
                – Tag Match does not need to be performed.
                – All tags corresponding to data in the packet
                must be transferred. For Snoopable
                transactions, partial tag transfer is not
                supported.
                – TU field is not applicable and must be zero.
The TagOp field value in a Retry request must be the same as in the original request.
Memory Tagging .
For more information, see Chapter B12

B13.10.39 Tag

The Tag field provides n sets of 4-bit tags, Tag[4*n-1:0]. Each tag is associated with a 16-byte, aligned address
location.


Memory Tagging .
Tag[((4*n)-1) : 4*(n-1)] corresponds to Data [(128*n)-1 : 128*(n-1)].
For more information, see Chapter B12

B13.10.40 Tag Update, TU

The TU field indicates which of the Allocation Tags must be updated. There is one TU bit for each tag.
The TU field is applicable in Snoop responses and Write transactions which update the Allocation Tags.


496

The TU field must be zero in all other transactions.
TU[n-1] corresponds to Tag [(4*n)-1 : 4*(n-1)].
Memory Tagging .
For more information, see Chapter B12

B13.10.41 Tag Group Identifier, TagGroupID

The TagGroupID field is used by a Requester to identify and process different sets of TagMatch responses by

IMPLEMENTATION SPECIFIC . Typically, the TagGroupID field is
grouping the corresponding requests together.
The precise contents of the TagGroupID field are
expected to contain an Exception Level, TTBR value, and CPU identifier.
Match to and in a TagMatch response.
The TagGroupID field is applicable in requests where TagOp is set
In requests, when applicable, the same bits in the packet are used for LPID , PGroupID , or StashGroupID .


.
In responses, when applicable, the same bits in the packet are used for DBID , PGroupID , or StashGroupID .
See B2.4.15 Tag Group Identifier, TagGroupID

B13.10.42 Trace Tag, TraceTag

The TraceTag field is used to tag the packets associated with a transaction for tracing purposes.
The TraceTag field is inapplicable and can take any value in:
• ReqLCrdReturn
• RspLCrdReturn
• SnpLCrdReturn
• DatLCrdReturn
• Persist


Table B13.32: TraceTag value encodings


• StashDone
• TagMatch
• PCrdGrant
The TraceTag field is applicable in all other messages.
Table B13.32 shows the TraceTag field value encodings.


TraceTag Description

0b0
Packet is not tagged

0b1
Packet is tagged


B13.10.43

See B11.7 Trace Tag .

 Resource Partitioning and Monitoring, MPAM
 Memory System

The MPAM field is used to efficiently utilize the memory resources among users and to monitor their use.
See B11.4 MPAM.


497

B13.10.44 Virtual Machine Identifier Extension, VMIDExt

The VMIDExt field is used to extend VMID value from 8 bits to 16 bits.
See B8.4.1 DVM message payload .

B13.10.45 Response Error, RespErr

The RespErr field indicates the error status of the response.
Table B13.33 shows the RespErr value encodings.

Table B13.33: RespErr value encodings

RespErr[1:0] Description


– The Normal access was successful. For WriteNoSnpDef ,

0b01 Exclusive Okay. Indicates that either the read or write portion
      an Exclusive access was successful.

0b00 Normal Okay. Indicates that either:
      – The Normal access was successful. For WriteNoSnpDef
      RespErr must be used in combination with Resp to
      establish the exact response. See Table B13.35 .
      – The Exclusive access failed.
See Chapter B9Error Handling


Exclusive Okay. Indicates that either the read or write portion of


0b10 Data Error, DERR

0b11 Non-data Error, NDERR


.

B13.10.46 Response status, Resp

The Resp field must have the same value in all data flits of a multi-flit data transfer.
Table B13.34 shows the Resp value encodings.


Resp[2:0] Description

Table B13.34: Resp value encodings


Resp[2] PassDirty. Indicates that the data included in the response
message is Dirty with respect to memory and that the
responsibility of writing back the cache line is being passed to
the recipient of the response message.


Continued on next page


0b0 Returned data is not Dirty.
0b1 Returned data is Dirty and the responsibility of
writing back the cache line is being passed on.


498

Table B13.34 –Continued from previous page

Resp[2:0] Description


snooped RN-F. For completion responses, this field indicates the

field indicates the state of the data in the Request Node when the
data is sent. For TagMatch responses, Resp [0] alone indicates a

valid Resp value encodings.
       Table B13.35: Valid Resp value encodings for different message

Resp[1:0] For snoop responses, this field indicates the final state of the
                       snooped RN-F. For completion responses, this field indicates
                final state in the Request Node. For WriteData responses, this
                field indicates the state of the data in the Request Node when
                data is sent. For TagMatch responses, Resp [0] alone indicates
                Tag Match pass or fail.
Table B13.35 shows the valid Resp value encodings.

different message types

Response type Resp[2:0] State
 Notes

Snoop responses 0b000
I Final
 state of the snooped RN-F
0b001
SC
0b010
UC, UD
0b011
SD
0b100
I_PD Final
 state of the snooped RN-F.
Responsibility for updating memory
is passed to Home.
0b101
SC_PD
0b110
UC_PD
0b111
- Reserved

Comp responses 0b000
I Final
 state of the requesting RN-F
Not including
WriteNoSnpDef or
StashOnce*
transactions
0b001
SC
0b010
UC
0b011
-
0b100
- Reserved
0b101
-
0b110
UD_PD Final
 state of the requesting RN-F.
Responsibility for updating memory
is passed to the Requester.
0b111
SD_PD
Continued on next page


499

Table B13.35 –Continued from previous page

Response type Resp[2:0] State
 Notes

Comp responses for
StashOnce*
transactions
0b001
SC Cache
 state in the next-level cache.
0b010
UC, UD
0b011
SD
0b100
- Reserved
0b101
-
0b110
-
0b111
-

Comp or
0b000
Successful Only
 when RespErr [1:0] = 0b00
CompDBIDResp
responses
for WriteNoSnpDef
only
0b001
Unsupported Reserved and must be 0b000 when
RespErr[1:0] != 0b00
0b010
Defer See
 Table B9.1 for more
information
0b011 - 0b111 - Reserved

0b000 I Cache state in the response is
                imprecise and must be ignored

0b000 I Cache state in the response is
                imprecise and must be ignored.
WriteData responses

0b001
SC State
 of the cache line at the RN-F
when data is sent
0b010
UC
0b011
- Reserved
0b100
-
0b101
-
0b110
UD_PD State
 of the cache line at the RN-F
when data is sent.
Responsibility for updating memory
is passed to the Home.
0b111
SD_PD
Continued on next page


500

Table B13.35 –Continued from previous page

Response type Resp[2:0] State
 Notes

CompAck responses
for CopyBack
transactions
0b001
SC State
 of the cache line at the RN-F
when the response is sent
0b010
UC
0b011
- Reserved
0b100
-
0b101
-
0b110
UD_PD State
 of the cache line at the RN-F
when data is sent.
Responsibility for updating memory
is passed to the Home.
0b111
SD_PD

TagMatch responses 0b000
Fail Part
 of TagMatch operation
0b001
Pass
0b010 - 0b111 - Reserved


B13.10.47 Forward State, FwdState

The FwdState field indicates the state in the CompData sent from the Snoopee to the Requester.
The FwdState field is applicable in SnpRespFwded and SnpRespDataFwded.
The FwdState field is inapplicable in all other Snoop responses and must be zero.
Table B13.36 shows the FwdState value encodings.

Table B13.36: FwdState value encodings

FwdState Description

FwdState[1:0] Indicates the final state at the Requester. See Table
                          B13.37

FwdState[2] Pass Dirty.
                    0 Forwarded data is not Dirty.
                    1 Forwarded data is Dirty and the
                               responsibility of writing back the cache
                       line is passed on to the Requester.

0b000 I Cache state in the response is
                imprecise and must be ignored
Table B13.37 enumerates the FwdState value encodings.


501

Table B13.37: Valid FwdState value encodings

FwdState[2:0] State Comment

0b000
I Final
 state at the Requester
0b001
SC
0b010
UC

0b011
- Reserved
0b100
-
0b101
-

0b110
UD_PD Final state at the Requester.
0b111
SD_PD Responsibility for updating
memory is passed to the
Requester


B13.10.48 Completer Busy, CBusy

The CBusy field is a mechanism for the Completer of a transaction to indicate its current level of activity.
The CBusy field value encodings are IMPLEMENTATION DEFINED .
See B11.6 Completer Busy.

B13.10.49 Data payload, Data

The Data field is the data payload that is being transported in a Data packet.
The following data bus widths are supported:
• 128-bit
• 256-bit
• 512-bit
See B2.9.4 Data packetization.

B13.10.50 Critical Chunk Identifier, CCID

The CCID field indicates the critical 128-bit chunk of the data that is being requested.
Table B13.38 shows the CCID value encodings.

Table B13.38: CCID value encodings

CCID[1:0] Critical data chunk

0b00 Data[127:0]

0b01 Data [255:128]

0b10 Data [383:256]

0b11 Data [511:384]


See B2.9.7 Critical Chunk Identifier .


502

B13.10.51 Data Identifier, DataID

The DataID field indicates the relative position of the data chunk within the 512-bit cache line that is being
transferred.
Table B13.39 shows the DataID field value encodings.

Table B13.39: DataID value encodings

DataID Data width
128-bit 256-bit
 512-bit

0b00 Data[127:0] Data [255:0] Data [511:0]

0b01 Data [255:128] Reserved Reserved

0b10 Data [383:256] Data [511:256] Reserved

0b11 Data [511:384] Reserved Reserved


See B2.9.4 Data packetization.

B13.10.52 Byte Enable, BE

The BE field indicates if the corresponding byte of data is valid.
The BE field is applicable in write data, DVM payload, and Snoop response data transfers.
The BE field is inapplicable in Read response data transfers and can take any value.
The BE field consists of a bit for each data byte in the DAT flit.


value

Table B13.40 shows the BE value encodings.

BE

BE Byte
 enable

0b0
Corresponding byte of data is not valid

0b1
Corresponding byte of data is valid


See B2.9.3 Byte Enables.

B13.10.53 Data check, DataCheck

Errors in the DAT packet.
        64-bit chunk of data is poisoned, that is, has an error,

of data is valid.
payload, and Snoop response data transfers.
data transfers and can take any value.
byte in the DAT flit.
                         Table B13.40: BE value encodings
The DataCheck field is used to detect Data Errors in the DAT packet.
.
See B9.2.2 Data Check

B13.10.54 Poison

The Poison field indicates if the corresponding 64-bit chunk of data is poisoned, that is, has an error, and must not
be consumed.
Table B13.41 shows the Poison value encodings.


503

Table B13.41: Poison value encodings

Poison Description

0b0
Corresponding 64-bit chunk is not poisoned

0b1
Corresponding 64-bit chunk is poisoned


B13.10.55

See B9.2.1 Poison.

 Data source, DataSource

The DataSource field identifies the sender of the data response, and can provide additional information on the state
of the data in a system.
The DataSource field is applicable in:
• CompData and DataSepResp responses in Read and Atomic transactions
• SnpRespData and SnpRespDataPtl responses
The DataSource field is not applicable and must be zero in all other responses.


B13.10.56


Note
Prior to Issue G, the DataSource field was only applicable in SnpRespData or SnpRespDataPtl responses in
Non-stash type Snoop transactions. This requirement was driven by DataPull sharing the common field
location on the SNP channel. With DataPull being split out for Issue G, this restriction is removed, allowing
DataSource to be applicable in all SnpRespData or SnpRespDataPtl responses.

See B11.2 Data Source.

 Data Target, DataTarget

The DataTarget field forwards replacement and usage hints from Requesters to the caches in the interconnect.


B13.10.57

See B11.3 Data Target .

 PrefetchTgt Hint, PrefetchTgtHint

The PrefetchTgtHint field is permitted, but not required, to be used by a Requester to indicate that the original
request had an associated PrefetchTgt request. A Chip-to-Chip link receiver can use the PrefetchTgtHint field to
recreate the PrefetchTgt request if it is known that the original PrefetchTgt was dropped at the Chip-to-Chip link


 Description


transmitter.


PrefetchTgtHint

The Read did not include associated PrefetchTgt request, or this
information was not available at the time the read request was sent.
There is no expected value in generating a PrefetchTgt request at the
Chip-to-Chip link receiver.

0b1 The Read included an associated PrefetchTgt request.
                                                     Continued on next page

0b0 The Read did not include associated PrefetchTgt request, or this
     information was not available at the time the read request was sent.
     There is no expected value in generating a PrefetchTgt request at
     Chip-to-Chip link receiver.

          of the data response, and can provide additional information on
          in Read and Atomic transactions
          responses
and must be zero in all other responses.
field was only applicable in SnpRespData or SnpRespDataPtl responses
This requirement was driven by DataPull sharing the common field
DataPull being split out for Issue G, this restriction is removed,
          SnpRespData or SnpRespDataPtl responses.
          and usage hints from Requesters to the caches in the interconnect.
but not required, to be used by a Requester to indicate that the
request. A Chip-to-Chip link receiver can use the PrefetchTgtHint
is known that the original PrefetchTgt was dropped at the Chip-to-Chip
                                       Table B13.42: PrefetchTgtHint encoding
The Read included an associated PrefetchTgt request.
Continued on next page


504

Table B13.42 –Continued from previous page

PrefetchTgtHint Description

If it is known that the PrefetchTgt was dropped at the Chip-to-Chip link


The PrefetchTgtHint field is applicable and can be set to 0 or 1 from a Request Node to a Home Node in:
• ReadNoSnp
• ReadUnique
• ReadShared
• ReadPreferUnique
• ReadOnce*
• ReadNotSharedDirty
• ReadClean
The PrefetchTgtHint field is inapplicable and must be zero in all other requests from a Request Node to a Home
Node, and in all requests from a Home Node to a Subordinate Node.
The PrefetchTgtHint field is inapplicable and must be zero in PrefetchTgt requests.

B13.10.58 Number of DAT packets elided, NumDat

The NumDat field indicates the number of additional DAT packets represented by the transferred packet when
using Limited Data Elision and is applicable in all data messages.
Table B13.43 shows the encoding for NumDat.

Table B13.43: NumDat field encoding


0b00 or Default when not supported 0 packets

0b01
1 packets

0b10
2 packets

0b11
3 packets

is dependent on the data bus width, Data_Width and request
with Replicate . The possible values for NumDat and Replicate
in each transferred data packet of a data response message.
non-zero value when all BE bits in the DAT packet are either
value as the sent packet that represents them.
BE are used in the DAT packet.

NumDat[1:0] Number of
                              additional DAT
                     packets represented

If it is known that the PrefetchTgt was dropped at the Chip-to-Chip
source, there is value in regenerating it at the Chip-to-Chip link receiver.
The range of possible values for NumDat is dependent on the data bus width, Data_Width and request transaction
size.
The NumDat field is used in combination with Replicate . The possible values for NumDat and Replicate are
shown in Table B2.17 .
The NumDat field value can be different in each transferred data packet of a data response message.
The NumDat field can only be set to a non-zero value when all BE bits in the DAT packet are either 0 or 1. Any
elided data packets have the same BE value as the sent packet that represents them.
The NumDat field must be 0b00 if sparse BE are used in the DAT packet.
See B2.9.5 Limited Data Elision .

505

B13.10.59 Replicate

The Replicate field is used in combination with NumDat to establish the field values for any elided packets.
0 not b00.
The Replicate field is only applicable when NumDat is
The Replicate field is inapplicable and must be zero when NumDat 0b00 is.
Table B13.44 shows the encoding for Replicate, and how it defines the field values for any elided packet.

Table B13.44: Replicate field encoding

Replicate Description

 packets elided by NumDat have the following:
• Data =0x0
• NumDat =
• Replicate =
• DataCheck = All 1
• DataID adapted to represent elided packet(s)
• All other fields the same value as this packet.

0b1 The packets elided by NumDat have the following:
     • Data = Data value from this packet
     • NumDat = 0b00
     • Replicate = 0b0
     • DataID adapted to represent the elided packet or packets.
     • All other fields the same value as this packet.

0b0 or Not supported The packets elided by NumDat have the following:
                            • Data = 0x0
                            • NumDat = 0b00
                            • Replicate = 0b0
                            • DataCheck = All 1
                            • DataID adapted to represent elided packet(s)
                            • All other fields the same value as this packet.
The packets elided by NumDat have the following:
• Data = Data value from this packet
• NumDat =
• Replicate =
• DataID adapted to represent the elided packet or packets.
• All other fields the same value as this packet.


The possible values for NumDat and Replicate are shown in Table B2.17 .
.
See B2.9.5 Limited Data Elision

B13.10.60
 Customer Use, RSVDC
 Reserved for

The RSVDC field in a Protocol flit can take any value.
IMPLEMENTATION is
 DEFINED
Propagation of this field through the interconnect
. There is no defined relationship
between RSVDC field values in different packets of a transaction.
The RSVDC field is applicable in the REQ and DAT channels:
• The presence of this field is optional.
• The permitted field widths are:
– 4-bits
– 8-bits
– 12-bits
– 16-bits
– 24-bits
– 32-bits
• The RSVDC field widths:
– Can be different between REQ and DAT channels.

*
The Req_RSVDC_Width property defines the width of the RSVDC field on the REQ channel.
*
The Dat_RSVDC_Width property defines the width of the RSVDC field on the DAT channel.

506

– Does not need to be the same across all REQ channels in the system.
– Does not need to be the same across all DAT channels in the system.
When connecting Tx and Rx flit interfaces that have mismatched RSVDC widths:


B13.10.61
 Context Identifier, MECID


• The corresponding lower-order bits of the RSVDC field must be connected at each side of the interface.
• The higher-order RSVDC bits at the RX interface that do not have corresponding bits at the TX interface
must be tied LOW.

 Memory Encryption

The MECID field is used by a memory encryption engine as an index into a table of encryption contexts, either
keys or tweaks, that contribute to the external memory encryption.


 channel

When MEC_Support is True, the MECID field is present on the REQ, SNP, and DAT channels.
B13.10.61.1 REQ
The MECID field is inapplicable and must be zero in:
• PCrdReturn
• DVMOp
The MECID field is inapplicable and can take any value in:
• Evict
• CleanShared
• CleanSharedPersist
• CleanSharedPersistSep
• CleanInvalid


 channel


• CleanInvalidPoPA
• CleanInvalidStorage
• MakeInvalid
• CleanUnique
• MakeUnique
The MECID field is applicable in all other requests, except for in device requests to the host when
DevAssign_Support is Device_StreamID_SecSID1.
When DevAssign_Support is Device_StreamID_SecSID1, the common field containing MECID and StreamID is
considered as StreamID .
When applicable, the MECID field and can take any value bounded by the PAS relationship in Table B13.47 .
B13.10.61.2 DAT
The MECID field shares a common field with DBID .
The common field is considered as:
• MECID when DataPull is 0 and the message is SnpRespData, SnpRespDataPtl, or SnpRespDataFwded. The
MECID field can take any value bounded by the PAS relationship in Table B13.47 .
• DBID when DataPull is 1, or in any data message that is not SnpRespData, SnpRespDataPtl, or
SnpRespDataFwded.
The MECID field is inapplicable and must be zero in all other data messages.


507

B13.10.61.3 SNP channel
The following applicability is required for the MECID field:
• Inapplicable and must be zero in SnpDVMOp and SnpQuery.


Memory Encryption Contexts, MEC .


• Inapplicable and can take any value in SnpLCrdReturn.
• Applicable in all other Snoop messages and can take any value bounded by the PAS relationship in Table
B13.47.
See B10.6

B13.10.62 Stream Identifier, StreamID

The StreamID field is used as a unique identifier of a stream of requests originating from one or a set of Requesters
associated with the same System MMU context.
The StreamID field is present when the DevAssign_Support property is set to Device_StreamID_SecSID1.
When interfacing to PCIe, the StreamID field is the Requester node ID associated with a single PCIe endpoint.
The StreamID field is applicable and can take any value in all device requests to the host, except for the following


Device Assignment (DA) and Coherent Device Assignment (CDA) .


requests when StreamID is inapplicable and must be zero:
• PCrdReturn
• DVMOp
The StreamID field not present in host requests to the device.
See B10.7

B13.10.63 Stream Identifier Security State, SecSID1

The SecSID1 field qualifies the Security state of the StreamID .
The SecSID1 field is present when the DevAssign_Support property is set to Device_StreamID_SecSID1.
The SecSID1 field is applicable and can take any value in all device requests to the host, except for the following
requests when SecSID1 is inapplicable and must be zero:
• PCrdReturn


Device Assignment (DA) and Coherent Device Assignment (CDA) .


• DVMOp
The SecSID1 field is not present in host requests to the device.
For the permitted encodings of SecSID1 against PAS, see Table B10.3 .
See B10.7

B13.10.64 MultiReq

The MultiReq field is used in conjunction with the NumReq field to indicate the total amount of Data associated
with the transaction.
The MultiReq field is applicable in:
• ReadNoSnp
• ReadNoSnpSep
• ReadOnce
• ReadOnceCleanInvalid
• ReadOnceMakeInvalid


508

• WriteNoSnpFull
• WriteNoSnpPtl
• WriteNoSnpZero
• WriteUniqueFull
• WriteUniquePtl
• WriteUniqueZero
The MultiReq field is inapplicable and can take any value in ReqLCrdReturn .
The MultiReq field is inapplicable and must be 0 in all other requests.
See B2.6 Multi-request for more information.

B13.10.65 NumReq

The NumReq field is used in conjunction with the MultiReq field to indicate the total amount of Data associated
with the transaction.
The least significant 3 bits of NumReq share a common field with the Size field.
When the MultiReq field is 0 The common field is considered Size .
When the MultiReq field is 1 The common field is considered NumReq.
Table B13.45 shows the Request size based upon the MultiReq , Size , and NumReq fields.

Table B13.45: Valid encodings for MultiReq, Size, and NumReq fields

MultiReq { 3’b0 , Size [2:0]} / Number of bytes being
                    NumReq[5:0] requested
0b0 0b000000
1
0b000001
2
0b000010
4
0b000011
8
0b000100
16
0b000101
32
0b000110
64
Others Reserved

0b1 0b000000
Reserved
0b000001
128
0b000010
192
0b000011
256
0b000100
320
0b000101
384
0b000110
448
0b000111
512

Continued on next page

509

Table B13.45 –Continued from previous page

MultiReq { 3’b0 , Size [2:0]} / Number of bytes being
                    NumReq[5:0] requested
, Size [2:0]} /
bytes being


0b001000
576
0b001001
640
0b001010
704
0b001011
768
0b001100
832
0b001101
896
0b001110
960
0b001111
1024
0b010000
1088
0b010001
1152
0b010010
1216
0b010011
1280
0b010100
1344
0b010101
1408
0b010110
1472
0b010111
1536
0b011000
1600
0b011001
1664
0b011010
1728
0b011011
1792
0b011100
1856
0b011101
1920
0b011110
1984
0b011111
2048
0b100000
2112
0b100001
2176
0b100010
2240
0b100011
2304
0b100100
2368
0b100101
2432
0b100110
2496
0b100111
2560
0b101000
2624

Continued on next page

Copyright © 2014, 2017-2025 Arm Limited or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
510

Table B13.45 –Continued from previous page

MultiReq { 3’b0 , Size [2:0]} / Number of bytes being
                    NumReq[5:0] requested
, Size [2:0]} /
bytes being


0b101001
2688
0b101010
2752
0b101011
2816
0b101100
2880
0b101101
2944
0b101110
3008
0b101111
3072
0b110000
3136
0b110001
3200
0b110010
3264
0b110011
3328
0b110100
3392
0b110101
3456
0b110110
3520
0b110111
3584
0b111000
3648
0b111001
3712
0b111010
3776
0b111011
3840
0b111100
3904
0b111101
3968
0b111110
4032
0b111111
4096


The NumReq field is applicable when MultiReq is 1 in the following transactions:
• ReadNoSnp
• ReadNoSnpSep
• ReadOnce
• ReadOnceCleanInvalid
• ReadOnceMakeInvalid
• WriteNoSnpFull
• WriteNoSnpPtl
• WriteNoSnpZero
• WriteUniqueFull

511

• WriteUniquePtl
• WriteUniqueZero
The NumReq field is inapplicable and can take any value in ReqLCrdReturn .
The NumReq field is inapplicable and must be 0 in all other requests or when MultiReq is 0.
See B2.6 Multi-request for more information.

B13.10.66 CacheLineID

The CacheLineID field indicates to which cache line a Response or Data message is related.
When applicable, the CacheLineID field must match the value of REQ. Addr[11:6] or SNP. Addr[8:3] for the
relevant line being accessed, for both multi-request and non multi-request transactions.
For example, a multi-request ReadNoSnp transaction targeting four cache lines starting at address location 0x0C0
would see CompData, or RespSepData or DataSepResp messages with the following CacheLineID values:
• 0b000011 indicating the cache line at address 0x0C0
• 0b000100 indicating the cache line at address 0x100
• 0b000101 indicating the cache line at address 0x140
• 0b000110 indicating the cache line at address 0x180
The CacheLineID field is applicable in the following Response messages, except for when they are part of a DVM
transaction:
• Comp
• RespSepData
• CompDBIDResp
• DBIDResp
• DBIDRespOrd
• ReadReceipt
• CompAck
The CacheLineID field is inapplicable and must be 0 in the following Response messages when it is part of a
DVM transaction:
• DBIDResp
• Comp
• CompDBIDResp
The CacheLineID field is applicable in the following data messages:
• CompData
• DataSepResp


B13.10.67


• SnpRespData
• SnpRespDataPtl
• SnpRespDataFwded
The CacheLineID field is inapplicable and can take any value in:
• RspLCrdReturn
• DatLCrdReturn
The CacheLineID field is inapplicable and must be 0 in all other Response and Data messages.
See B2.6 Multi-request for more information.

 MismatchedMECID

The MismatchedMECID field is used to inform the Home Node that the Snoopee has detected a mismatch
between the incoming Snoop MECID field value and the MECID value in the local cache for that location.

512

Table B13.46: MismatchedMECID value encodings

Table B13.46 shows the MismatchedMECID value encodings.


MismatchedMECID Description

0b0
No MECID mismatch is detected at the Snoopee.

0b1 MECID mismatch is detected at the Snoopee. The
     Home might need to take corrective action, as
     detailed in B10.8.1 MECID mismatch resolution .
The MismatchedMECID field is applicable in:


MECID mismatch resolution


• SnpRespData


MECID mismatch resolutionfor more information on MECID mismatch behavior.


• SnpRespDataPtl
The MismatchedMECID field is inapplicable and must be zero in all other data messages.
See B10.8.1

B13.10.68 PAS


Table B13.47: PAS encodings


The PAS field determines the PAS that the request or snoop is targeting.
Table B13.47 shows the PAS encodings for the REQ and SNP channels in relation to MECID .


PAS[2:0] Description MECID
 Restrictions

 be zero. None.
0b000 Secure Must

 be zero. None.
0b001 Non-secure Must

0b010 Root Must
 be zero. RME_Support must be True.

0b011 Realm Can
 take any value
a
RME_Support must be True.

0b100 System Agent Can
 take any value
a
RME_Support and GDI_Support must be True.

0b101 Non-secure Protected Can take any value
a
RME_Support and GDI_Support must be True.

0b110 Reserved. -
 -

0b111 Reserved. -
 -

a
This is dependent upon the MEC_Support and MECID_Width properties.


B13.10.68.1 REQ channel
The PAS field is inapplicable and must be zero in:
• PCrdReturn
• DVMOp
The PAS field is inapplicable and can take any value in ReqLCrdReturn .
The PAS field is applicable in all other requests.

513

         Chapter B13. Link Layer
B13.10. Protocol flit fields
                       B13.10.68.2 SNP channel
                       The PAS field is inapplicable and must be zero in SnpDVMOp.
                       The PAS field is inapplicable and can take any value in SnpLCrdReturn.
                       The PAS field is applicable in all other snoop requests.
                       See B2.8.2 Physical Address Space, PAS for more information.
ARM IHI 0050 Copyright © 2014, 2017-2025 Arm Limited or its affiliates. All rights reserved. 514
Issue H Non-confidential