Chapter B13. Link
B13.7. Increasing

• All channels must be replicated even when only a subset of the channels needs increased bandwidth.
 Address striping
B13.7.1.1
An optional optimization is permitted where a Request Node can specify the address striping that is used to select
between multiple interfaces. This can be specified for any number of interfaces.
A Request Node is permitted to use address striping to guide its requests to the appropriate interface without
declaring the striping algorithm being used.
A Home Node typically can filter snoops based on a snoop filter. If the snoop filter is precise, the node ID of the
Requester that cached the cache line is tracked and a snoop is sent for a subsequent request to the same cache line
on a single interface. A snoop filter that does not track precisely, or is sized to the number of components in the
system instead of the number of Request Node interfaces, is not able to isolate the single interface needed to send


 Hash function example


the snoop on, unless the snoop filter knows and uses the same address striping algorithm as the Requester.
When a Request Node does not declare its striping algorithm, the snoop filters either need to be larger or the Home
must send redundant snoops. It is recommended that a Request Node that uses address striping advertises the
striping algorithm in order to be used by the Home Node.
The address striping used by a Request Node can be specified by a hash function.
B13.7.1.2
This section describes a suggested hash function to be used to distribute requests across multiple REQ interfaces.
The same hash function can be used to distribute snoops across multiple available SNP interfaces. The steps in
generating the interface number are:
1. The cache line aligned input address is first filtered through a predefined Hash Mask. The most significant
address bits that are not used must be all zeros before filtering the address. In this example, the result of the
filtering is Mask_Result.
2. The individual bits of Mask_Result are XORed to obtain the target interface.
Where the number of interfaces is a power-of-two:


B13.7.2


• For 2 interfaces:


 channels on a single interface


Interfaces[0] = Mask_Result[n-1] ˆ Mask_Result[n-2] . . . Mask_Result[7] ˆ Mask_Result[6]
• For 4 interfaces:
Interfaces[1:0] = Mask_Result[n-1:n-2] ˆ Mask_Result[n-3:n-4] . . . Mask_Result[9:8] ˆ Mask_Result[7:6]
• For 8 interfaces:
Interfaces[2:0] = Mask_Result[n-1:n-3] ˆ Mask_Result[n-4:n-6] . . . Mask_Result[11:9] ˆ Mask_Result[8:6]
This example does not cover the situation where the number of interfaces is not a power-of-two.

 Replicated

Rather than replicating a complete interface through more complex methods, a more efficient method to increase
the available interface bandwidth is to selectively replicate the channels that require greater bandwidth.
Figure B13.10 shows an example of replicated channels.


ARM IHI 0050
463

RN-F
TXREQ0 REQ0
TXREQ1 REQ1
RXRSP0 RSP0
RXRSP1 RSP1
RXDAT0 DAT0
RXDAT1 DAT1
RXSNP0 SNP0
Single interface
TXRSP0 RSP0
TXDAT0 DAT0
TXDAT1 DAT1


B13.7.2.1 Features


Figure B13.10: Replicated channels example


The main features of this method of increasing available bandwidth are described in this section.
Each channel can be selectively replicated. There are no restrictions on which channels are replicated. Typically,
replication of a channel is based on the expected bandwidth required on that channel. For example, in Figure
B13.10, TXREQ is duplicated as TXREQ0, TXREQ1, whereas RXSNP is not duplicated and has only RXSNP0.
The characteristics of the replicated channel interface are:
• All replicated DAT subchannels corresponding to a single DAT channel must be of the same width.
• The complete interface must use:
– The same NodeID
– A single TxnID pool
• Messages within a transaction can use any subchannel:
– A response message does not need to use the same subchannel as the request. For example, Request on


SACTIVE of , LINKACTIVE and SYSCOREQ/SYSCOACK signals, and


TXREQ0 can give a response on either RXRSP0 or RXRSP1.
– Multiple response messages for a single request can come on any subchannel. For example, DBIDResp
for a write transaction is received on RXRSP0 whereas the corresponding Comp can be received on
RXRSP1.
• Like non-replicated channels, replicated channels do not provide any in-channel ordering guarantees.
• All link crediting is done on a subchannel basis.
– Cannot use the credit for TXREQ0 to send the flit on TXREQ1.
– Credits are required to be provided by the Receiver on all subchannels.
• Protocol credits are for the combined TXREQ channel.
• There is no support for powering down a subchannel individually.
• The two parts of a DVM snoop can come on either subchannel. Each part can be on a different subchannels.
• The number of subchannels on two connected interfaces must match.
• There must be only one set
optional broadcast control pins.
• Interface property CCF_Wrap_Order is not permitted to be set to True when the interface includes replicated
DAT channels.


 0050
464

Note
When a channel has been replicated on an interface, IMPLEMENTATION it is
 SPECIFIC which of the
subchannels is used for a transfer.


465