Chapter B14. Link
B14.2. Link

Cycle 1 The Receiver grants one credit.
Cycle 2 The Transmitter sends a transfer using a credit.
Cycle 3 The Receiver grants one credit.
Cycle 4 The Receiver grants one credit.


 control with Resource Planes


Cycle 5 The Transmitter sends a transfer using a credit. The Receiver grants one credit.
Cycle 6 The Transmitter sends a transfer using a credit.
Cycle 7 The Receiver grants one credit.
Cycle 8 The Transmitter sends a transfer using a credit.
Cycle 9 No events occur.
B14.2.1.2 Flow
Resource Planes (RP) are optionally used on the REQ and SNP channels to enable independence between traffic
sharing a link. This could be to avoid deadlock scenarios or to improve Quality-of-Service. Each RP has dedicated
credits so it is possible to give credits for one RP, allowing it to make progress when another RP is blocked waiting
for credit.
Flits using different Resource Planes must not block one another between a Transmitter and a Receiver.
If flits remain on separate Resource Planes across multiple links, the non-blocking guarantee can be extended.
Any link that includes multiple Resource Planes can optionally include shared credits to improve buffer utilization


LCRDV signal has one bit per RP, therefore the Receiver can grant up to


when throughput varies on different Resource Planes. A Receiver supporting shared credits can allocate its buffers
between those dedicated to one RP and those for any RP.
It is recommended that a Transmitter uses a dedicated rather than shared credit for a flit if it has both. This is
because shared credits are more flexible so could be retained for a flit that does not have a dedicated credit.
The following rules specify how the Transmitter and Receiver with an RP-extended link must behave:
• Credits are allocated per RP. The
one credit per RP per cycle.
LCRDV signal identifies the RP for which a link credit is being granted.
– The index of the
– Link credits for different Resource Planes are permitted to be transferred in the same cycle.
bit for a specific RP must be deasserted if the maximum number of dedicated credits, that
– The LCRDV
is, 15, are outstanding for that RP.


signal is asserted by the Receiver to give one shared credit to the Transmitter. LCRDSHV
– The Receiver must be able to give at least one dedicated credit per RP supported.
• The LCRDSHV
LCRDV.
can be asserted without asserting
must be deasserted if the maximum number of shared credits, that is, 15, are outstanding.
– LCRDSHV
• Only one RP may transfer a flit over the link per cycle. The RP of the flit being transferred is given by the

is only valid when FLITV is asserted. The value of FLITRP has no meaning when FLITV is
value of FLITRP
– FLITRP
deasserted and must be ignored by the Receiver.


FLITV for the RP indicated by the FLITRP value when it has a dedicated

• The Receiver must give independence guarantees between Resource Planes, whether the Transmitter is using
a shared or dedicated credit.
• The Transmitter must only assert
credit for that RP, or a shared credit.
• When the Transmitter asserts FLITV for the RP indicated by the FLITRP value, when SHAREDCRD is:


ARM IHI 0050
519

– 0, the Transmitter uses a dedicated credit for that RP.
– 1, the Transmitter uses a shared credit. A Transmitter can use a shared credit to send a transfer on any

signal has no meaning, and can take any value when FLITV is zero.
RP.
• The SHAREDCRD
• The Transmitter must ensure that when it has a flit to send on an RP and a credit available for that RP, the
transmission does not depend on credits being received for any other RP.
• A Receiver must guarantee that it can accept all flits for which it has issued either dedicated credits or shared
credits.


0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10


• When the link is active, the local Receiver must provide either dedicated or shared credits in a timely manner
without requiring any action from the remote Transmitter.
Figure B14.2 shows an example use of a channel with three Resource Planes and a mixture of dedicated and
shared credits.


CLK


LCRDV[0]
LCRDV[1]
LCRDV[2]
LCRDSHV


FLITPEND
FLITV
SHAREDCRD
FLITRP[1:0]
FLIT[FLIT_WIDTH-1:0]


Dedicated RP0 credit count
Dedicated RP1 credit count
Dedicated RP2 credit count

0 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 2

0 0 1 1 1 1 0 0 1 1 1

0 0 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1

0 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 1

fl it fl it fl it fl it

RP1 RP2 RP2 RP0
Shared credit count

Figure B14.2: Example of a channel with 3 Resource Planes


Figure B14.2 describes the following sequence:
Cycle 0 The Transmitter has no credits.
Cycle 1 The Receiver gives one credit for each RP and one shared credit.


520


Cycle 2 The Transmitter sends a transfer on RP1 using a dedicated credit.
Cycle 3 The Receiver gives a dedicated credit back to the Transmitter for RP1.
Cycle 5 The Transmitter sends a transfer on RP2 using a dedicated credit.
 6 The Transmitter sends a transfer on RP2 using a shared credit, as no dedicated credits are available.

Cycle 7 The Receiver gives a shared credit, and a dedicated credit for RP2 back to the Transmitter.
Cycle 8 The Transmitter sends a transfer on RP0 using a dedicated credit.
Cycle 9 The Receiver gives a dedicated credit back to the Transmitter for RP0, along with an additional shared
credit.


521