RUN and STOP are stable states. When one of these states is entered, a channel can remain in this state for an
indefinite period.
DEACTIVATE and ACTIVATE are transient states. It is expected that when one of these states is entered, a
channel moves to the next stable state in a relatively short period.

Note
The specification does not define a maximum period in a transient state, but it is expected that for any given
implementation it is deterministic.

The state is determined by the LINKACTIVEREQ and LINKACTIVEACKsignals. Figure B14.5 shows the
relationship between the four states.


STOP
00
10


DEACTIVATE
ACTIVATE


Figure B14.5: Request


01
11


 states


RUN


 and Acknowledge handshake


Table B14.1 shows the mapping of the states toLINKACTIVEREQ the
and LINKACTIVEACKsignals.

Table B14.1: Mapping
 signals
 of states to the LINKACTIVE

State LINKACTIVEREQ
 LINKACTIVEACK

STOP 0
 0

ACTIVATE 1
 0

RUN 1
 1

DEACTIVATE 0 1


Table B14.2 describes the behavior of both the Transmitter and the Receiver of a single link for each of the four
states.

Table B14.2: Behavior for each Request and Acknowledge state

State Transmitter
 behavior Receiver
 behavior

STOP The
 Transmitter has no credits and must The Receiver is guaranteed not to receive
not send any flits.
any flits.
Continued on next page


525

 activation and deactivation

Table B14.2 –Continued from previous page

State Transmitter
 behavior Receiver
 behavior


ACTIVATE (ACT) The Transmitter must not send any flits. The Receiver is guaranteed not to receive
any flits.
The Transmitter must be prepared to The Receiver must not send any credits.
receive credits in this state. However, the
Transmitter must not use them until in the
RUN state.
The Transmitter remains in the ACTIVATEThe ACTIVATE state is a transient state
state while waiting for the Receiver to and the Receiver controls the move to the
acknowledge the move to the RUN state. RUN state by asserting
LINKACTIVEACK .
Note
The Receiver must assert
The Transmitter only receives credits LINKACTIVEACKand move to the
in the ACTIVATE state when there is RUN state before sending credits. It is
a race between the Receiver sending permitted, but not required, to assert
credits and asserting LINKAC- LINKACTIVEACKand send a credit in
TIVEACK to move to the RUN state. the same cycle.

Note
A Receiver can appear to have
sent credits in the ACTIVATE
state if there is a race between
the Receiver sending credits and
asserting LINKACTIVEACK to
move to the RUN state.

RUN The Transmitter can receive credits. The Receiver can receive flits
                                                                             corresponding to the credits previously
                                                                             sent.
         The Transmitter can send flits when creditsThe Receiver sends credits when resources
         are available. For an RP-extended channel,are available to accept further flits.
         a Transmitter can only send flits on a
         specific RP when a dedicated credit is
         available for that channel or a shared credit
         is available.
         The Transmitter deasserts The Receiver must remain in the RUN state
                    LINKACTIVEREQ to exit from this state until observing the deassertion of
         if low power state is desired. LINKACTIVEREQ .

The Transmitter is guaranteed not to The Receiver must not send any credits.
receive any credits.
The Transmitter must assert
          LINKACTIVEREQ to move to the
ACTIVATE state if flits must be sent.
Continued on next page


Copyright © 2014, 2017-2025 Arm Limited or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
526

Table B14.2 –Continued from previous page

State Transmitter
 behavior Receiver
 behavior

DEACTIVATE The Transmitter is required to return all During this state, the Receiver stops
(DEACT)
unused credits before moving to STOP sending credits and collects all returned
state. For an RP-extended channel, this credits.
includes all dedicated credits and shared
credits. Shared credits can be returned
using the SHAREDCRD signal when
sending LCRdReturn . When the
SHAREDCRD signal is asserted in
LCRdReturn,
It is recommended that the Transmitter
FLITRP can take any value.
The Receiver expects to receive
enters the DEACTIVATE state only when LCRdReturn until all credits are returned.
no more Protocol flits can be sent. The Receiver must be prepared to receive
Therefore, it is expected that the flits, other than LCRdReturn until all
Transmitter returns credits using only credits are returned. This is not expected,
LCRdReturn.
but can occur.
The Transmitter must be prepared to


 state while waiting for the


The Receiver is permitted, but not required,
continue receiving credits. For each to send credits when first entering this state.
additional credit received, the Transmitter However, the Receiver must have stopped
must send a LCRdReturn to return the sending credits and had all credits returned
credit.
before exiting this state.
The Transmitter remains in the
DEACTIVATE
The Receiver must wait for all credits to be
Receiver to acknowledge the move to the returned before deasserting
STOP state. At this point, the Receiver is LINKACTIVEACK .
guaranteed to receive no more credits.
Note
The Receiver only receives flits in
the DEACTIVATE state when there
is a race between the Transmitter
sending the last remaining flits and
deasserting LINKACTIVEREQ to
move to the DEACTIVATE state.


Table B14.3 summarizes the required behavior described in detail in Table B14.2 .

 state

State Transmitter
 Receiver

RUN Can send flits Must accept flits
                           Continued on next page

ACT Must not send flits Must not send credits
          Must accept credits Does not receive flits

STOP Must not send flits Must not send credits
            Does not receive credits Does not receive flits

summarizes the required behavior described in detail in Table B14.2 .
            Table B14.3: Summary of behavior for each Request and Acknowledge
527

Chapter B14. Link
B14.5. Interface

Table B14.3 –Continued from previous page

State Transmitter
 Receiver

Must accept credits Can
 send credits

DEACT Expected
 to send L-Credit return flits Must accept flits
Can send any flits Must
Must accept credits
Must return credits


 stop sending credits


B14.5.1.1 Response to new state
When moving to a new state, where the state change has been initiated by the other-side of the interface, a
component could be required to change its behavior.
If the state change requires a component to start sending flits or credits, there is no defined limit on the time taken
for the component to start the new behavior. This new behavior only occurs in the new state.
If the state change requires a component to stop sending flits or credits, the component is permitted to take some


 or DEACTIVATE


time to respond. In this case, the behavior is observed when first entering a new state which is not expected within
that state.
The state change from RUN to DEACTIVATE is the point at which flits and credits stop being sent.
Flits are sent by the Transmitter, which is also the component that determines the state change, and therefore the
Transmitter can ensure flits are not sent after the state change.
Credits are sent by the Receiver, but that component does not determine the state change. The Receiver could take
some time to react to the state change. Therefore, credits can be sent when first entering the DEACTIVATE state.
The CHI protocol requires that the Receiver has stopped sending credits and has had all credits returned before
signaling the change from DEACTIVATE to STOP.
B14.5.1.2 Determining when to move to ACTIVATE
For a given channel, or set of channels in the same direction, the Transmitter is responsible for initiating the state
change from RUN to STOP, or from STOP to RUN.

Note
The Transmitter may determine that a channel state change is necessary based on several factors. The
following is a non-exhaustive list of example scenarios where a state transition may be initiated:


Transmit B14.6


• Flits ready to send: If the Transmitter has flits to transmit, it must transition the channel from STOP to
RUN.
• Anticipated inactivity: If the Transmitter determines that no useful activity is likely for a significant
period, it may transition the channel from RUN to STOP to save power.
• External indication: The Transmitter may detect a sideband signal instructing a transition from RUN to
STOP or STOP to RUN.
• Observing reverse direction: The Transmitter may observe a state change on the channel or channels
operating in the opposite direction, and use this to inform its own state transition. See
and receive link interaction .
• Outstanding transactions: The Transmitter may want to keep the link in RUN if an ongoing transaction
has not completed. However, if the channel in the opposite direction changes state, the Transmitter


ARM IHI 0050
528

must not delay its own state change waiting for the transaction to complete. In some cases, the link
may need to transition through STOP and back to RUN before completing an outstanding transaction.

B14.5.1.3 Multiple channels in the same direction
Figure B14.6 shows an example of a multiple channel interface, also referred to as a Link, that transfers payload
flits in the same direction. A single pair LINKACTIVEREQ of
and LINKACTIVEACKsignals are used for all
channels.


LINKACTIVEREQ

LINKACTIVEACK


Payload flit

Credit

Transmitter
Receiver


Payload flit

Credit


Payload flit

Credit


Figure B14.6: Example of a multiple channel unidirectional interface


The rules regarding the relationship between the LINKACTIVEREQ and LINKACTIVEACKsignals must be
applied appropriately across all channels:
• When a state change requires the Transmitter to be able to accept credits, the Transmitter must be able to
accept credits on all channels.
• When a state change requires the Receiver to be able to accept flits, the Receiver must be able to accept
credits on all channels.
• When the sending of flits must stop before a state change, the sending of flits must stop on all channels.
• When the sending of credits must stop before a state change, the sending of credits must stop on all channels.
• A credit can only be associated with a flit on the same channel.

529