RXREQ
RXACK
RXREQ
RXACK
RXREQ
RxStop
RxAct RxRun
RxDeact
RxStop
RxAct

Banned
TxStop Remote TxStop
TxStop
TxStop
Output
Initiate
RxStop
RxAct
Race RxRun+

TXREQ
Local
Initiate

Async
TxAct
TxAct
TxAct
TxAct
TxAct
Input
RxStop
RxAct
RxRun
Race RxDeact+
Async
TXACK
Input
Permitted
Race

Banned
TxRun+
TxRun
TxStop Remote TxRun
TxRun
TxRun
Output
RxStop
RxAct
RxStop Initiate RxDeact
RxStop+
Race
TXREQ
Banned
Local
Output
Initiate
Permitted
Permitted
Race

Async
TxDeact+
TxDeact
TxDeact
TxDeact
TxDeact
TxDeact
Input
RxAct
RxRun
RxDeact
RxStop
RxAct+
Race
Async
TXACK
Input
Permitted
Permitted
Race

TxStop+
TxStop
TxStop
TxStop
TxStop
RxRun
RxDeact
RxDeact
RxAct
TXREQ
Banned
Output
Permitted
Race

TxAct+
TxAct
TxAct
RxDeact
RxStop


Figure B14.7: Combined Tx and Rx state machines


Figure B14.7 shows the combined Tx and Rx state machines for a single component:
• For clarity, shortened state names and signal names are used.
• A green arrow represents a transition that the local agent can control.
• A blue arrow represents a transition that is under the control of the remote agent on the other side of the
interface.
• A black arrow represents a transition that is made when both the local and remote agents make a transition at
the same time.
• Around the edge of Figure B14.7 is an indication of the individual Tx and Rx states. The green and blue
arrows show which agent controls the transition. There is also an indication of the signal change that causes
the state transition.
• A vertical or horizontal arrow is a state change caused by just one signal change, that is, only the Rx state
machine or the Tx state machine changes state, not both.
• A diagonal arrow is a state change caused by two signals changing at the same time. If the diagonal arrow is
green or blue, the same agent is changing both signals.

531

Chapter B14. Link
B14.6. Transmit and receive link interaction

• There are a few cases where, by coincidence, a state change occurs due to two events, one on each side of the
link, occurring at the same time. This is always a diagonal path and is shown by a black arrow.
• The stub-lines show dead-end paths where an exit from a state is not permitted. The color of a stub-line
indicates which agent is required to ensure that the path is not taken.


Asynchronous race condition .


• The TxStop/RxStop and TxRun/RxRun states are expected to be stable states, and are typically the states
where the state machines stay for long periods of time. These states are highlighted with a bold outline. All
other states are considered transient states that are exited in a timely manner.
• The gray states, on the bottom right of Figure B14.7 , are replications of those on the top left. They are shown
to aid clarity and maintain the symmetry of the diagram.
• The yellow states can only be reached by observing a race between two input signals. The transition into
these states is labeled with Async Input Race. See B14.6.3.4
• The red states can only be reached by observing a race between two output signals. A race between two


 race condition

outputs is not permitted at the edge of a component and therefore the transition into these states is labeled
with Banned Output Race. These states can only be observed at a midpoint between two components. See
B14.6.3.4 Asynchronous
.

Expected transitions
• The bold arrows are used to indicate the expected transitions around the state machine. These are described
in more detail in B14.6.3
.
• The arrows labeled Permitted are state transactions that would not normally be expected, but they are

 naming

permitted by the protocol.
B14.6.2.1 State
Figure B14.7 shows the full set of states, including those that can only be reached through race conditions. A more
Asynchronous race condition .
detailed discussion of race conditions can be found in B14.6.3.4
There are two different TxStop/RxRun states and two different TxRun/RxStop states. These states differ in how
they are reached and the permitted ways to exit from them. To differentiate between these states, a [+] suffix is
used to indicate which state machine, Tx or Rx, is running ahead. For example:
• TxStop/RxRun+ indicates that the Tx state machine has remained in the previous STOP state, while the Rx


B14.6.3


state machine has advanced to the next RUN state.
• TxStop+/RxRun indicates that the Tx state machine has advanced to the next STOP state, while the Rx state
machine remains in the previous RUN state.

 Expected transitions

Figure B14.8 shows the expected state transitions.
The annotations on the diagram arrows in Figure B14.8 are:
Local Initiate Indicates that the local agent has initiated the process of leaving one stable state towards the
other stable state.
Remote Initiate Indicates that the remote agent on the other side of the interface has initiated the process of
leaving one stable state towards the other stable state.


ARM IHI 0050
532

RXREQ
RXACK
RXREQ
RXACK
RXREQ
RxStop
RxAct RxRun
RxDeact
RxStop
RxAct
Banned
TxStop Remote TxStop
TxStop
Output
TxStop
Initiate
RxStop
RxAct
RxRun+
Race

TXREQ
Local
Initiate

Async
TxAct
TxAct
TxAct
TxAct
Input
TxAct
RxStop
RxAct
RxRun
RxDeact+
Race
TXACK
Async
Input
Permitted
Race

Banned
TxRun+
TxRun
TxStop Remote TxRun
TxRun
TxRun
Output
Initiate
RxStop
RxAct
RxStop
RxDeact
Race
RxStop+

TXREQ
Banned
Local
Output
Initiate
Permitted
Race
Permitted

Async
TxDeact+
TxDeact
TxDeact
TxDeact
TxDeact
TxDeact
Input
RxAct
RxRun
RxDeact
RxStop
Race
RxAct+

TXACK
Async
Input
Permitted
Permitted
Race

TxStop+
TxStop
TxStop
TxStop
TxStop
RxRun
RxDeact
RxDeact
RxAct
Banned
TXREQ
Output
Permitted
Race

TxAct+
TxAct
TxAct
RxDeact
RxStop


Figure B14.8: Expected Tx and Rx state machines transitions


Figure B14.8 shows, using bold arrows, the routes between the stable TxStop/RxStop and TxRun/RxRun states,
and between the stable TxRun/RxRun and the TxStop/RxStop states.
The difference between the two routes moving from TxStop/RxStop to TxRun/RxRun states compared to moving
from TxRun/RxRun to TxStop/RxStop states is due to the requirement to return L-Credits in the latter case. The
differences are detailed in the following sections.
B14.6.3.1 Expected transitions from TxStop/RxStop to TxRun/RxRun
There are two expected routes from a stable Stop/Stop to Run/Run state.
Table B14.4 shows, in terms of the state transitions, the two expected paths.


533

Table B14.4: Stop/Stop to Run/Run state paths

 1 State
 3 State
 4
Route State
 2 State

Path 1 TxStop/RxStop TxStop/RxAct TxAct/RxRun TxRun/RxRun

Path 2 TxStop/RxStop TxAct/RxStop TxRun/RxAct TxRun/RxRun

B14.6.3.2 Expected transitions from TxRun/RxRun to TxStop/RxStop
──────────── ──────────── ─────────── ─────────── ───────── ───────────── ──────── ───────── ────────────── ───────────── ──────────── ─────────
A transition from a Run/Run state to a Stop/Stop state requires that L-Credits are returned. A link must
the DEACTIVATE state until all L-Credits are returned.
There are four expected routes from a stable Run/Run to Stop/Stop state.
Table B14.5 shows, in terms of the state transitions, the four expected paths.
                                                                                                                                    Table B14.5: State
A transition from a Run/Run state to a Stop/Stop state requires that L-Credits are returned. A link must remain in


B14.5: 5

Route State 1 State
 2 State
 3 State
 4 State
 5

Path 1 TxRun/RxRun TxDeact/RxRun TxDeact/RxDeact TxStop/RxDeact TxStop/RxStop

Path 2 TxRun/RxRun TxDeact/RxRun TxDeact/RxDeact TxDeact/RxStop TxStop/RxStop

Path 3 TxRun/RxRun TxRun/RxDeact TxDeact/RxDeact TxStop/RxDeact TxStop/RxStop

Path 4 TxRun/RxRun TxRun/RxDeact TxDeact/RxDeact TxDeact/RxStop TxStop/RxStop


B14.6.3.3 Transitions around a stable state
It is permitted, but not expected, to transition around a stable TxRun/RxRun or TxStop/RxStop state.
In the majority of cases, moving to the stable Run/Run or Stop/Stop state would be expected.
The most likely use case for wanting to move quickly out of one of the stable states is when an interface has
started to enter a low power state, but there is still some activity required. For example, the low power state could


 race


have been entered prematurely, or some new activity arose, by coincidence, while the low power state was being
entered. In this use case, it is desirable to be able to move back to the Run/Run state as quickly as possible.
B14.6.3.4 Asynchronous condition
There are situations where two output signals, X and Y, have a defined relationship such that:
• Output X must change after or at the same time as output Y, but it is not permitted to change before output Y.
This relationship applies specifically as follows:
• The assertion of RXACK must not occur before the assertion of TXREQ.
• The deassertion of RXACK must not occur before the deassertion of TXREQ.
• The assertion of TXREQ must not occur before the deassertion of RXACK.
• The deassertion of TXREQ must not occur before the assertion of RXACK.
In Figure B14.7 , these transitions are labeled as Banned Output Race and the resultant state is shown in red.
It is possible to observe these states if monitoring the output signals at a point in the system where asynchronous
race conditions can result in two signals, that are asserted within the same cycle, are observed in different clock
cycles.
A component that is on the other side of the interface, and has the two signals as inputs, can see the state transition
if an asynchronous input race occurs. These transitions are labeled on the diagram as Async Input Race and the
resultant state is shown in yellow.

534

For all input race conditions, a component that observes the input race is required to wait for both signals before
changing any output signals. This is represented in Figure B14.7 by the fact that the only permitted output
transition from a race state is caused by the arrival of the other signal associated with the race condition.
B14.6.3.5 Combined Tx and Rx state machines without race conditions
In Figure B14.9 , all transitions and states that occur as a result of a race condition in the combined Tx and Rx state
machines have been removed.

RXREQ
RXACK
RXREQ
RXACK
RXREQ
RxStop
RxAct RxRun
RxDeact
RxStop
RxAct

TxStop Remote TxStop
TxStop
RxStop Initiate RxAct

TXREQ
Local
Initiate


TxAct
TxAct
TxAct
TxAct
RxStop
RxAct
RxRun
TXACK
Permitted


TxRun
TxStop Remote TxRun
TxRun
RxAct
RxStop Initiate RxDeact

TXREQ
Local
Initiate
Permitted
Permitted

TxDeact
TxDeact
TxDeact
TxDeact
RxRun
RxDeact
RxStop

TXACK
Permitted
Permitted

TxStop
TxStop
TxStop
TxStop
RxDeact
RxDeact
RxAct

TXREQ
Permitted

TxAct
TxAct
RxStop

Figure B14.9: Combined Tx and Rx state machines without race conditions


535