RN-F0
RN-F1
RN-F1
ICN-RN ICN-SN
SN-F
I
I
I

ReadUnique


ReadNoSnp


SnpUnique
SnpUnique


CompData
SnpResp_I
SnpResp_I


CompData_UC


I->UC


CompAck


Interconnect
=TXSACTIVE


Figure B14.10: TXSACTIVE assertion during the life of a transaction


B14.7.2.1 TXSACTIVE signaling from a Request Node
When initiating new transactions, a Request Node must assert TXSACTIVE in the same cycle or before
TXREQFLITV is asserted and must keep TXSACTIVE asserted until after the final completing flit of a
transaction is sent or received.
The type of flit that completes a transaction initiated by a Request Node depends on both the transaction type and
the manner in which the transaction progresses. For example, a ReadNoSnp transaction could typically complete
with the receipt of the last CompData flit, but could equally complete with a ReadReceipt, if this is later than the
last CompData flit.
An RN-F or RN-D component must also assert TXSACTIVE while a Snoop transaction is in progress.
TXSACTIVE must be asserted after receiving an initiating snoop or SnpDVMOp flit, and no later than when its
first Response flit is sent. An RN-F or RN-D component mustTXSACTIVE keep asserted until after the final


537

completing flit is sent for all Snoop transactions. The lifetime of a PrefetchTgt is a single flit. From the perspective
of TXSACTIVE for the PrefetchTgt , the initiating flit of the a PrefetchTgt transaction is also the completing flit
and the transaction can be considered complete in the following cycle after the flit is sent.


 TXSACTIVE
 Node


For an RN-F or RN-D, the TXSACTIVE output is the logical OR of the requirements for the Request interface
and the Snoop interface.
B14.7.2.2
 signaling from a Subordinate
A Subordinate Node cannot initiate new transactions and is only required to TXSACTIVEassert while a
transaction that is in progress is being processed.
On receiving a transaction initiating flit, the

TXSACTIVE

TXSACTIVE signal from the Subordinate Node to the interconnect
interface must be asserted before or in the same cycle in which its first Response flit is sent. The Subordinate Node
must keep the
signal to the interconnect interface asserted until after the final completing flit is sent
or received.
 TXSACTIVE
 interface to a Request Node
B14.7.2.3
 signaling from an interconnect
The interconnect interface to a Request Node must assert TXSACTIVE in both the following conditions:
• On receiving a transaction initiating flit, TXSACTIVEthe signal from the interconnect interface to the
Request Node must be asserted before or in the same cycle in which its first Response flit is sent. The
interconnect interface must keep the TXSACTIVE signal to the Request Node asserted until after the final
completing flit is sent or received.
• Before or in the same cycle in which its initiating Snoop or SnpDVMOp flit is sent. The interconnect
interface must keep the

TXSACTIVE


TXSACTIVE signal to the Request Node asserted until after the final completing flit

 interface to a Subordinate

is received, which is either SnpResp, SnpRespData, or SnpRespDataFwded.
B14.7.2.4
 signaling from an interconnect
Node
The interconnect interface to a Subordinate Node must assert TXSACTIVE before or in the same cycle in which
its initiating Request flit is sent. The interconnect interface to a Subordinate must TXSACTIVE keep asserted
until after the final completing flit is sent or received.

B14.7.3 RXSACTIVE signal

When RXSACTIVE is asserted, the receiver must respond to a link activation request in a timely manner. It is
permitted for a Receiver to delay responding to a Link activation request RXSACTIVE when is deasserted.

Note
The deassertion ofRXSACTIVE does not indicate that all Protocol layer activity has completed. A
Receiver can receive a Protocol flit, which corresponds to a transaction that was in progress while
RXSACTIVE was asserted, afterRXSACTIVE is deasserted.

RXSACTIVE can be used in combination with a knowledge of the ongoing transactions, which is indicated by the
components TXSACTIVE output, to indicate that no further transactions are required. This can be used to control
entry to a low power state.

B14.7.4
 between
 Relationship
 SACTIVE and LINKACTIVE

SACTIVE signaling is an indication of Protocol layer activity. A node can be considered inactive when both
and RXSACTIVE
TXSACTIVE
are deasserted.
LINKACTIVE state is an indication of the Link layer activity. The Link layer at a node, or interconnect, can be
considered inactive when its Transmitter is in TxStop state and its Receiver is in RxStop state.


538

SACTIVE signaling is orthogonal to the LINKACTIVE states with one constraint as specified in B14.7.3
RXSACTIVE signal.
A node, or interconnect, should only enable higher-level clock gating and low power optimizations when both its
Protocol and Link layers are inactive.


539

Chapter B15
System Coherency Interface


This chapter describes the interface signals that support connecting and disconnecting an RN-F from both the

Overview
Coherency and DVM domains and an RN-D from the DVM domain. It contains the following sections:
• B15.1
• B15.2 Handshake

Note
In this chapter:
• Coherency when stated, includes the DVM domain, unless explicitly stated otherwise.
• Snoop when stated, includes SnpDVMOp, unless explicitly stated otherwise.


540