Chapter B16. Properties, Parameters, and Broadcast Signals
B16.3. Atomic transaction support

• Perform the atomic operation required by an Atomic transaction within the interconnect. This requires that
the interconnect performs the appropriate Read, Write, and Snoop transactions to complete the Atomic
transaction.


B16.3.3
 Node support


• If the appropriate endpoint Subordinate is configured to indicate support of Atomic transactions, the
interconnect can pass the Atomic transaction to the Subordinate. The interconnect is still required to perform
the appropriate Snoop and Write transactions before issuing the Atomic transaction to the Subordinate.

 Subordinate

Subordinate Node support for Atomic transactions is optional.
The Atomic_Transactions property is used to indicate that a Subordinate Node supports Atomic transactions.
If a Subordinate Node supports Atomic transactions for particular memory types, or for particular address regions,
when receiving an unsupported Atomic transaction, the Subordinate Node must give an appropriate Error response.


584

Part C
Appendices

Chapter C1
Message Field Mappings


This appendix shows the field mappings for the request, response, data, and snoop request messages. It contains
the following sections:
• C1.1 Request message field mappings
• C1.2 Response message field mappings
• C1.3 Snoop Request message field mappings
• C1.4 Data message field mappings


586

Chapter C1. Message Field Mappings


Table C1.1 shows the conventions used in the field mapping tables.

Table C1.1: Key to field mapping table conventions

Symbol Description

 or more protocol message fields


X
Inapplicable. Field value can take any value.

1
Applicable. Field value is used, must be 1.

0
Applicable. Field value is used, must be zero.
a
0
Inapplicable. Field value must be zero.

Y
Applicable. Field value is used. See specification for
permitted values and usage.

D
Inapplicable. Field value must be default setting for
MPAM fields.

8B
Size field must be set to 8-byte encoding.

64B
Size field must be set to 64-byte encoding.

M
Field position reused for DVM operations. See ( DVM
Operations)

- Assigned to another protocol message field that shares
    same set of bits in this packet field. If the other field
    present, it is considered inapplicable and the field value
    must be zero.

CF Common Field. Two or more protocol message fields
    share the same set of bits in this packet field.
same set of bits in this packet field. If the other field is not


0x__ Applicable. Field is used, required value encoded in
hexadecimal.


Copyright © 2014, 2017-2025 Arm Limited or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
587