Table B16.1: Atomic_Transactions property options

Atomic_Transactions value Description

True Atomic
 transactions are supported.

False or Not specified Atomic
 transactions are not supported.


A component that supports Atomic transactions must support all Atomic transactions. However, it is not required
that a component that supports Atomic transactions supports the targeting of all memory types. See
transaction support

B16.1.2 Cache_Stash_Transactions

A Cache_Stash_Transactions property is used to indicate if a component supports Cache Stashing transactions.
Table B16.2 shows the Cache_Stash_Transactions property options.


Cache_Stash_Transactions value Description

True Cache
 Stashing transactions are supported.

False or Not specified Cache
 Stashing transactions are not supported.


B16.1.3 Direct_Memory_Transfer

A Direct_Memory_Transfer property is used to indicate if a component supports Direct Memory Transfer
transactions.
Table B16.3 shows the Direct_Memory_Transfer property options.

Table B16.3: Direct_Memory_Transfer property options

Direct_Memory_Transfer value Description

True Direct
 Memory Transfer transactions are
supported.

     property is defined at each Home Node for each Subordinate Node.
is used to indicate if a component supports Poison .
the Data_Poison property options.

False or Not specified Direct Memory Transfer transactions are not
                                     supported.

supports Atomic transactions must support all Atomic transactions. However, it is not
          supports Atomic transactions supports the targeting of all memory types. See Atomic B16.3
          property is used to indicate if a component supports Cache Stashing transactions.
the Cache_Stash_Transactions property options.
                                              Table B16.2: Cache_Stash_Transaction property options
The Direct_Memory_Transfer property is defined at each Home Node for each Subordinate Node.

B16.1.4 Data_Poison

A Data_Poison property is used to indicate if a component supports Poison .
Table B16.4 shows the Data_Poison property options.


Copyright © 2014, 2017-2025 Arm Limited or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
547

Table B16.4: Data_Poison property options

Data_Poison value Description


Poison is not supported and the Poison field is not


See B9.2.1 Poison.

B16.1.5 Direct_Cache_Transfer

A Direct_Cache_Transfer property is used to indicate if a component supports Direct Cache Transfer transactions.
Table B16.5 shows the Direct_Cache_Transfer property options.

Table B16.5: Direct_Cache_Transfer property options

Direct_Cache_Transfer value Description

True Direct
 Cache Transfer transactions are supported


The HN-F is required to determine the correct snoop type to use.

B16.1.6 Data_Check

A Data_Check property is used to indicate the DataCheck field is present in the DAT packet.
Table B16.6 shows the Data_Check property options.


Data_Check value Description

Odd_Parity Data
 Check is supported and the DataCheck field
is present in the DAT packet.
If Check_Type is defined and set to
Odd_Parity_Byte_All, the DataCheck field is not
present in the DAT packet.

.
is used to indicate the protection scheme employed on an interface.
the Check_Type property options.

False or Not specified The DataCheck field is not in the DAT packet
                              unless specified by the Check_Type property

to determine the correct snoop type to use.
is used to indicate the DataCheck field is present in the DAT packet.
the Data_Check property options.
                                                            Table B16.6: Data_Check property options

False or Not specified Direct Cache Transfer transactions are not
                                     supported

False or Not specified Poison is not supported and the Poison field is
                         present in the DAT packet

True Poison is supported and the Poison field is present
      in the DAT packet
See B9.2.2 Data Check

B16.1.7 Check_Type

A Check_Type property is used to indicate the protection scheme employed on an interface.
Table B16.7 shows the Check_Type property options.

548

Table B16.7: Check_Type property options

Check_Type value Description

Odd_Parity_Byte_All Parity
 check signals are added to every channel.
The signals added are detailed in B9.3
interface parity.

Odd_Parity_Byte_Data The
 DataCheck field is present in the DAT packet

False or Not specified No
 checking signals are present on the interface,
unless specified by the Data_Check property


B16.1.8 CleanSharedPersistSep_Request

A CleanSharedPersistSep_Request property is used to indicate if a component supports CleanSharedPersistSep .
Table B16.7 shows the CleanSharedPersistSep_Request property options.

Table B16.8:

CleanSharedPersistSep_Request value Description

True The
 component supports CleanSharedPersistSep

False or Not specified The component does not support
                                            CleanSharedPersistSep and the component must
                              not be sent a CleanSharedPersistSep request.

     property is used to indicate if a component supports CleanSharedPersistSep
the CleanSharedPersistSep_Request property options.
               Table B16.8: CleanSharedPersistSep_Request property options

False or Not specified No checking signals are present on the interface,
                             unless specified by the Data_Check property

Odd_Parity_Byte_All Parity check signals are added to every channel.
                             The signals added are detailed in B9.3 Use of
                                  interface parity .
 component does not support
CleanSharedPersistSep and the component must
not be sent a CleanSharedPersistSep request.


The CleanSharedPersistSep_Request property has the following conditions:
• A Home that receives a CleanSharedPersistSep request must support such a request.


B16.1.9


• A Home can track if a connected Subordinate supports CleanSharedPersistSep .
• If a Subordinate does not support CleanSharedPersistSep :
– The Home must send a CleanSharedPersist instead of a CleanSharedPersistSep request to that
Subordinate.
– Home must take the responsibility of sending the Persist response to the Requester. This Persist
response must only be sent after receiving the Comp response from the Subordinate.
• A Requester that does not support CleanSharedPersistSep generates CleanSharedPersist instead.

 MPAM_Support

The MPAM_Support property is used to indicate whether an interface supports MPAM .
Table B16.9 shows the MPAM_Support property options.


549

Table B16.9: MPAM_Support property options

MPAM_Support value Description

MPAM_12_1 The
 interface is enabled for partitioning and
monitoring:
– The MPAM field must be included on the
REQ and SNP channels.
– The width of PartID is 12 bits, the width of
PerfMonGroup is 1 bit, and the width of
MPAMSP is 2 bits.


MPAM_9_1 The
 interface is enabled for partitioning and
monitoring:
– The MPAM field must be included on the
REQ and SNP channels.
– The width of PartID is 9 bits, the width of
PerfMonGroup is 1 bit, and the width of
MPAMSP is 2 bits.

False or Not specified MPAM is not supported:
                                – The interface is not MPAM enabled.
                                – No MPAM fields are present on the interface.
False or Not specified MPAM


How the MPAM field values are used by a Receiver IMPLEMENTATION is
 DEFINED .

B16.1.10 CCF_Wrap_Order

See B2.9.8 Critical Chunk First Wrap order .

B16.1.11 Req_Addr_Width

The Req_Addr_Width parameter is used to indicate the maximum PA supported by a component.
Table B16.10 shows the Req_Addr_Width parameter options.

Table B16.10: Req_Addr_Width parameter options

Req_Addr_Width value Description

44 to 52 Legal
 values

Not specified Default
 value is 44


B16.1.12 NodeID_Width

The NodeID_Width parameter is used to indicate the width of NodeID fields supported by a component, which
determines the maximum NodeID value in the system.
Table B16.11 shows the NodeID_Width parameter options. The width specified in Table B16.11 is uniformly
applied to all NodeID related fields.


550

Table B16.11: NodeID_Width parameter options

NodeID_Width value Description

7 to 16 Legal
 values

Not specified Default
 value is 7


B16.1.13 Data_Width

The Data_Width parameter is used to indicate the data width in the DAT channel packet supported by a component.
Table B16.12 shows the Data_Width parameter options.


Data_Width value Description

128, 256, and 512 Legal
 values

Not specified Default
 value is 128


B16.1.14 Enhanced_Features

The Enhanced_Features property describes the combined support for the following features:
• Data return from SC state
• IO deallocation transactions
• ReadNotSharedDirty transaction
• CleanSharedPersist transaction
• Receiving of forwarding snoops.
Table B16.13 shows the Enhanced_Features property options.

Table B16.13: Enhanced_Features property options

Enhanced_Features value Description

True The
 component support the features that are
covered by the Enhanced_Features property.

False or Not specified The component does not support the features
                              are covered by the Enhanced_Features property.

parameter is used to indicate the data width in the DAT channel packet supported by a
the Data_Width parameter options.
                                                               Table B16.12: Data_Width parameter options
 component does not support the features that
are covered by the Enhanced_Features property.


B16.1.15 Deferrable_Write

The Deferrable_Write property is used to indicate whether a component supports WriteNoSnpDef transaction.
Table B16.14 shows the Deferrable_Write property options.


551

Table B16.14: Deferrable_Write property options

Deferrable_Write value Description

True WriteNoSnpDef
 is supported

False or Not specified WriteNoSnpDef
 is not supported


B16.1.16 RME_Support

An RME_Support property determines whether an interface supports RME transactions.
Table B16.15 shows the RME_Support property options.

Table B16.15: RME_Support property options

RME_Support value Description

True
The interface supports the following RME-specific
transactions:
– CleanInvalidPoPA
– WriteBackFullCleanInvPoPA
– WriteNoSnpFullCleanInvPoPA
– WriteNoSnpPtlCleanInvPoPA


RME_Support can only be True if Nonshareable_Cache_Maint is True and DVM_Support is DVM_v9.2.

B16.1.17 Nonshareable_Cache_Maint

A Nonshareable_Cache_Maint property is used to indicate if an RN-F or interconnect supports the cache
maintenance of a Non-snoopable cacheable location from a Requester that is different to the Requester that
originally accessed that location.
Table B16.16 shows the Nonshareable_Cache_Maint property options.

Table B16.16: Nonshareable_Cache_Maint property options

Nonshareable_Cache_Maint value Description

False or Not specified There are no additional requirements on an RN-F.
                                An HN-I responding with NDERR upon receiving a request with both SnpAttr
                                Cacheable = 1 is IMPLEMENTATION . DEFINED

False or Not specified The interface does not support the following
                              RME-specific transactions:
                              – CleanInvalidPoPA
                              – WriteBackFullCleanInvPoPA
                              – WriteNoSnpFullCleanInvPoPA
                              – WriteNoSnpPtlCleanInvPoPA
An HN-I responding with NDERR upon receiving a request with both SnpAttr and


Continued on next page


552

Table B16.16 –Continued from previous page

Nonshareable_Cache_Maint value Description

True
An RN-F with MemAttr .Cacheable to 1 must also set SnpAttr to 1. This may require a


signals are deasserted. In this instance, all transactions are


modification of the transaction type, for example, a ReadNoSnp with
MemAttr.Cacheable to 1 is upgraded to an Allocating Read.
This rule does not apply when both BROADCASTINNER and
BROADCASTOUTER
forced to be non-snoopable, and transactions such as ReadNoSnp with
MemAttr.Cacheable = 1 and SnpAttr = 0 are explicitly permitted. For more
Mismatched Memory attributes
information, see B2.8.7
and B16.2.1
BROADCASTINNER and BROADCASTOUTER .
A HN-I receiving a request with both SnpAttr and Cacheable = 1 must respond with
NDERR when completing the transaction, except for when the transaction is a
ReadOnce*, WriteUnique , WriteUnique*CMO , WriteUniqueZero , or an Atomic.


IMPLEMENTATION DEFINED .

A HN-I responding with NDERR upon receiving a ReadOnce* , WriteUnique ,
WriteUnique*CMO, WriteUniqueZero , or an Atomic request with both SnpAttr and
Cacheable = 1 is
When RME_Support property is True, Nonshareable_Cache_Maint property must be
True.
A system fully supports the cache maintenance of Non-snoopable Cacheable memory
when all RN-F nodes and the interconnect define the Nonshareable_Cache_Maint
property as True.

The Nonshareable_Cache_Maint property is inapplicable for RN-I, RN-D, and HN-F nodes.
The Nonshareable_Cache_Maint property and Outer_Cacheable_Support properties overlap, allowing for the
orthogonal control of device coherency and SLC allocation. When the Outer_Cacheable_Support is True,
            Nonshareable_Cache_Maint property is inapplicable and can take any value. See Table B16.17 for more
information.
orthogonal control of device coherency and SLC allocation. When the Outer_Cacheable_Support is True, the


553

Table B16.17: Relationship between Outer_Cacheable_Support and Nonshareable_Cache_Maint


False
A ReadNoSnp or WriteNoSnp For an RN-F
transaction with MemAttr .Cacheable The following restrictions apply:
set to 1 is permitted.
– A ReadNoSnp or WriteNoSnp transaction
The following restrictions apply for a with MemAttr .Cacheable set to 1 must be
ReadNoSnp or WriteNoSnp transaction upgraded to a Snoopable alternative:
with MemAttr .Cacheable set to 1:
– Allocation in the Requester cache is
– Allocation in the Requester cache permitted.
is permitted.
– Hardware coherency is guaranteed.
– Hardware coherency is not
– Logging in the Snoop filter is permitted,
guaranteed.
if present.
– Logging in the Snoop filter is not – Remote invalidation is possible.
required.
– Cache Maintenance Operations and Atomic*
– Responsibility for any internal transactions with MemAttr .Cacheable set to
cache maintenance is held by the 1 and SnpAttr set to 1 are permitted.
Requester.
– Cache Maintenance Operations with
– Remote invalidation may not be MemAttr.Cacheable set to 1 and SnpAttr set
possible.
to 0 are not permitted.
Cache Maintenance Operations and For an RN-I
Atomic* transactions with
A ReadNoSnp , WriteNoSnp , or Atomic*
MemAttr.Cacheable set to 1 and transaction with MemAttr .Cacheable set to 1 is
SnpAttr set to 0 or 1 are permitted. permitted.
Cache Maintenance Operations with
MemAttr.Cacheable set to 1 and SnpAttr set to 0
or 1 are permitted.

True
A ReadNoSnp or WriteNoSnp transaction with MemAttr .Cacheable set to 1 is permitted.
The following restrictions apply:
– Allocation into an RN-F cache is not permitted.
– Logging in the Snoop filter is not required.
– Coherency will apply to agents that can access the SLC.
Cache Maintenance Operations and Atomic* transactions with MemAttr .Cacheable set
to 1 and SnpAttr set to 0 or 1 are permitted.

B16.1.18 Outer_Cacheable_Support
──────── ────────── ──────────── ────────────── ──────── ─────────────────────── ─────────────── ─────────── ───────────── ─────────── ──────────── ────────────
          The Outer_Cacheable_Support property determines the behavior of Request Nodes in relation to transactions
          have MemAttr .Cacheable set to 1 and SnpAttr set to 0.
          The Outer_Cacheable_Support property overlaps with the Nonshareable_Cache_Maint property, allowing for
          orthogonal control of device coherency and SLC allocation. See Table B16.17 for more information.
          Table B16.18 shows the Outer_Cacheable_Support property options.

Outer_Cacheable_Support Nonshareable_Cache_Maint value
value
                         False True
The Outer_Cacheable_Support property determines the behavior of Request Nodes in relation to transactions that

The Outer_Cacheable_Support property overlaps with the Nonshareable_Cache_Maint property, allowing for the


554

Table B16.18: Outer_Cacheable_Support property options

Outer_Cacheable_Support value Description


ReadNoSnp and WriteNoSnp transactions with MemAttr .Cacheable set to 1 are

If a ReadNoSnp is issued by an RN-F, the RN-F must not locally allocate the


B16.1.19 PBHA_Support

A PBHA_Support property determines whether an interface supports PBHA functionality.
Table B16.19 shows the PBHA_Support property options.


PBHA_Support value Description

True PBHA
 feature is supported.
The 4-bit PBHA field is present on REQ, DAT,
and SNP channels.


B16.1.20 Cache_State_UDP

A Cache_State_UDP property indicates whether an RN-F or Home Node supports Unique Dirty Partial (UDP)
state.
Table B16.20 shows the Cache_State_UDP property options.

Table B16.20: Cache_State_UDP property options

Cache_State_UDP value Description

True The
 component supports UDP cache state.

False or Not specified
The component does not support UDP cache state.


Note

Cache_State_UDP is False for multiple components, it is possible for implementation
be established.

False or Not specified PBHA feature is not supported.
                                No PBHA signals are present on the interface.

property determines whether an interface supports PBHA functionality.
          the PBHA_Support property options.
                                                        Table B16.19: PBHA_Support property options

True ReadNoSnp and WriteNoSnp transactions with MemAttr .Cacheable set to 1
             permitted.
      If a ReadNoSnp is issued by an RN-F, the RN-F must not locally allocate
             location as a result of the transaction.
      Cache Maintenance Operations and Atomic* transactions with
             MemAttr.Cacheable set to 1 and SnpAttr set to 0 are permitted.

False or Not specified Depending upon the Nonshareable_Cache_Maint property value, transactions
                                    with MemAttr .Cacheable set to 1 and SnpAttr set to 0 can be permitted.
In a system where Cache_State_UDP is False for multiple components, it is possible for implementation
optimizations to be established.


555

B16.1.21 Cache_State_SD

A Cache_State_SD property indicates whether an RN-F or Home Node supports Shared Dirty (SD) state.
Table B16.21 shows the Cache_State_SD property options.

Table B16.21: Cache_State_SD property options

Cache_State_SD value Description

True The
 component supports SD cache state.

False or Not specified The
 component does not support SD cache state.


B16.1.22 DVM_Support

A DVM_Support property is used to indicate Arm ARM specification supported by a given component.
Table B16.22 shows the DVM_Support property options.


DVM_Support value Description

DVM_v8 The
 component supports DVM transactions
required to support Armv8

DVM_v8.1 The
 component supports DVM transactions
required to support Armv8.1

DVM_v8.4 The
 component supports DVM transactions
required to support Armv8.4

DVM_v9.2 The
 component supports DVM transactions
required to support Armv9.2

          heterogeneous components, the system configuration is required to determine the lowest
          supported in the system. The interconnect must have the knowledge of this lowest
          means of configuration, straps, parameterization, or some other IMPLEMENTATION
and denial of service, the interconnect must detect unsupported DVM operations. The
suppress unsupported DVM operation propagation and respond in a protocol-compliant
such a response is optional.
          see Chapter B8 DVM Operations .
property determines how much of the MTE functional space each component supports
          interface.
          for both a Home and a Subordinate, but only affects the Home to Subordinate

False or Not specified The component does not support DVM
                                  transactions

property is used to indicate Arm ARM specification supported by a given component.
          the DVM_Support property options.
                                                  Table B16.22: DVM_Support property options
In a system with heterogeneous components, the system configuration is required to determine the lowest common
DVM specification supported in the system. The interconnect must have the knowledge of this lowest common
denominator value by means of configuration, straps, parameterization, or some other
SPECIFIC method.
To avoid deadlocks and denial of service, the interconnect must detect unsupported DVM operations. The
interconnect must suppress unsupported DVM operation propagation and respond in a protocol-compliant manner.
Error indication in such a response is optional.
For further information, see Chapter B8

B16.1.23 MTE_Support

An MTE_Support property determines how much of the MTE functional space each component supports across a
Home to Subordinate interface.
MTE_Support is defined for both a Home and a Subordinate, but only affects the Home to Subordinate connection.


556

 B16.23: MTE_Support property options
Table

MTE_Support value Description TagOp

Full or Not Specified The interface supports the full MTE Can be set to Invalid , Transfer , Update , Match , and Fetch
                        feature. while complying with any other transaction restrictions
                                                                already specified.
Full or Not Specified The interface supports the full MTE Can be set to Invalid, Transfer


Reduced The
 interface supports a subset of Can be set to Invalid, Transfer, and Fetch while
the full MTE feature.
complying with any other transaction restrictions already
specified.
Update is not permitted on WriteNoSnpPtl* .

Note


Update down to the


If Home receives a WriteNoSnpPtl* where not all
BE and TU bits are 1, and wants to send the
transaction to the Subordinate, the Home will need
to perform a Read Modify Write sequence and send
a WriteNoSnpFull * with
Subordinate.


Must not beMatch.

Note
Match, it
If Home receives a request with TagOp
cannot send this transaction onto the Subordinate.
Home must perform the TagMatch operation on
behalf of the Subordinate.


Continued on next page


557

Continued from previous page
Table B16.23 –

MTE_Support value Description TagOp

False The
 interface does not support any Must be Invalid.
MTE operations.

B16.1.23.1 Requests and permitted tag operations
Table B16.24 shows a summary of the permitted TagOp field values in the different requests, depending on the
MTE_Support property value. Only the operations that a Home is able to issue to a Subordinate are shown. The
following key is used:
Y Permitted
- Not permitted

Table B16.24: Permitted TagOp values for each request type, based on MTE_Support property value

MTE_Support = Full MTE_Support = Reduced MTE_Support = False
Tag Operation Tag Operation
Tag Operation


Invalid Transfer Update Match Fetch Invalid Transfer Update Match Fetch Invalid Transfer Update Match Fetch


Atomic* Y
Y - - - -
 - - Y - Y - - - -

CleanInvalid Y
Y - - - -
 - - - - Y - - - -

CleanInvalidPoPA Y
Y - - - -
 - - - - Y - - - -

CleanInvalidStorage Y
 - - - - Y - - - - Y - - - -

CleanShared Y
 - - - - Y - - - - Y - - - -

CleanSharedPersist Y
 - - - - Y - - - - Y - - - -

CleanSharedPersistSep Y
 - - - - Y - - - - Y - - - -

MakeInvalid Y
 - - - - Y - - - - Y - - - -

PCrdReturn Y
 - - - - Y - - - - Y - - - -

ReadNoSnp Y
Y - - - -
 Y - - Y Y Y - - Y

ReadNoSnpSep Y
Y - - - -
 Y - - Y Y Y - - Y

WriteNoSnpDef Y
Y - - - -
 - - - - Y - - - -

WriteNoSnpFull Y
 Y Y Y - Y Y Y - - Y - - - -

WriteNoSnpFull + (P)CMO Y Y Y - - Y Y Y - - Y - - - -

WriteNoSnpPtl Y
 - Y Y - Y - - - - Y - - - -

WriteNoSnpPtl + (P)CMO Y - Y - - Y - - - - Y - - - -

WriteNoSnpZero Y
 - - - - Y - - - - Y - - - -


The TagOp field in ReqLCrdReturn , DatLCrdReturn, and RspLCrdReturn is inapplicable and can take any value.
The Tag and TU fields in DatLCrdReturn are inapplicable and can take any value.

558

B16.1.23.2 Interoperability
Table B16.25 shows the interoperability rules for MTE_Support.

Table B16.25: MTE_Support Interoperability

Subordinate: Full Subordinate: Reduced Subordinate:
 False


Home: Reduced Compatible. Compatible. Compatible.
Returned TagOp will always be
Invalid, but the system should not
deadlock.

Home: False Compatible. Compatible. Compatible.


B16.1.24 Limited_Data_Elision

A Limited_Data_Elision property determines support for the Limited Data Elision feature.

Table B16.26: Limited_Data_Elision property options

Limited_Data_Elision value Description

False or Not specified Limited Data Elision is not supported.
                                  NumDat and Replicate are present, but
                                  both must be zero.

Home: Full Compatible. Not compatible. Not compatible.
                               If the Home issues a request with If the Home issues a request with
                               TagOp Match or a WriteNoSnpPtl* TagOp Match or a WriteNoSnpPtl*
                               with TagOp Update , the system with TagOp Update , the system
                               could deadlock. could deadlock.
True Limited
 Data Elision is supported.
NumDat and Replicate can take non-zero
values when appropriate.
A BROADCASTLIMELISION signal
must be present, or it is required that an
alternative mechanism exists to control the
issuing of data messages that include
elided packets.


B16.1.25 MEC_Support

A MEC_Support property determines whether an interface supports Memory Encryption Contexts.


559

Table B16.27: MEC_Support property options


The interface supports the MEC architecture and must include the MECID field


MEC_Support value Description

False or Not specified The interface does not support the MEC architecture.

True
on the REQ, SNP, and DAT channels.
The width of the field is determined by the MECID_Width parameter.


See B10.6 Memory Encryption Contexts, MEC


The MECID_Width parameter must not be zero.


The MEC_Support property has the following conditions:


B16.1.26


• If the RME_Support property is True, the MEC_Support property can be True or False.
• If the RME_Support property is False, the MEC_Support property must be False.

 MECID_Width

The MECID_Width parameter defines the width of the MECID field.


MECID_Width value Description

0
No MECID fields are present on the interface.

Each MECID field is 16 bits wide.


The MECID_Width parameter has the following conditions:


16


B16.1.27


• If MEC_Support is True, MECID_Width must not be zero.
• If MEC_Support is False, MECID_Width can take any permitted value.

 DevAssign_Support

The DevAssign_Support property determines whether an interface supports RME-DA or RME-CDA. If this
property is not specified, it is considered to be False. See B10.7 Device Assignment (DA) and Coherent Device
Assignment (CDA) for more information.

Table
 property options
 B16.29: DevAssign_Support

DevAssign_Support value Description

False, Not specified, or Host The interface does not support RME-DA or RME-CDA.
                                      No StreamID or SecSID1 fields are present on the interface.
                                      Requests and Snoops are permitted to target locations in any PAS.
                                      When MEC_Support is True, the common field on the REQ channel
                                      StreamID and MECID is considered as MECID for Device-to-Host requests.
                                      No additional checks are required on transactions across the interface.

          Contexts, MEC for more information.
has the following conditions:
property is True, the MEC_Support property can be True or False.
property is False, the MEC_Support property must be False.
          defines the width of the MECID field.
                                                  Table B16.28: MECID_Width property options
When MEC_Support is True, the common field on the REQ channel with


Continued on next page


560

Table B16.29 –Continued from previous page

DevAssign_Support value Description

Device_StreamID_SecSID1 The interface supports RME-DA or RME-CDA.
The interface includes the StreamID or SecSID1 fields on the REQ channel for
device requests to the host.
Requests and Snoops are not permitted to target locations in the Root or Secure
PAS.
When MEC_Support is True, the common field on the REQ channel with
StreamID and MECID is considered as StreamID for Device-to-Host requests.
Additional checks might be required on transactions across the interface.
It is recommended that PrefetchTgt requests from a device are dropped by the
host and not propagated to the Subordinate.

Device_NoStreamID_NoSecSID1 The interface supports RME-DA or RME-CDA.
No StreamID or SecSID1 fields are present on the interface.
Requests and Snoops are not permitted to target locations in the Root or Secure
PAS.
When MEC_Support is True, the common field on the REQ channel with
StreamID and MECID is considered as MECID for Device-to-Host requests.
Additional checks might be required on transactions across the interface.
It is recommended that PrefetchTgt requests from a device are dropped by the
host and not propagated to the Subordinate.


The DevAssign_Support property has the following conditions:
• When the RME_Support property is True, DevAssign_Support can take any value.
• When the RME_Support property is False, DevAssign_Support must be False.
• When the DevAssign_Support property is not Device_StreamID_SecSID1:
– When the MEC_Support property is True, the common field on the REQ channel with StreamID and
MECID is considered as MECID .
– When the MEC_Support property is False, StreamID and MECID are inapplicable.

B16.1.28 Req_RSVDC_Width

The Req_RSVDC_Width parameter is used to indicate the width of the RSVDC field on the REQ channel.
Table B16.30 shows the Req_RSVDC_Width property options.

Table B16.30: Req_RSVDC_Width property options

Req_RSVDC_Width value Description

0
Legal values.
4
8
12
16
24

Continued on next page


561

Table B16.30 –Continued from previous page

Req_RSVDC_Width value Description

32

Not specified The
 default value 0 is.


See B13.10.60 Reserved for Customer Use, RSVDC

B16.1.29 Dat_RSVDC_Width

The Dat_RSVDC_Width parameter is used to indicate the width of the RSVDC field on the DAT channel.
Table B16.31 shows the Dat_RSVDC_Width property options.


Dat_RSVDC_Width value Description

0
Legal values.
4
8
12
16
24
32

Not specified The
 default value 0 is.


See B13.10.60 Reserved for Customer Use, RSVDC

B16.1.30 GDI_Support

The GDI_Support property determines whether an interface supports GDI.
Table B16.32 shows the GDI_Support property options.


GDI_Support value Description

False or Not specified The interface does not support GDI.

True The
 interface supports GDI.

The GDI_Support property has the following conditions:
• When the RME_Support property is True, the GDI_Support property can be True or False.
• When the RME_Support property is False, the GDI_Support property must be False.
For further information, see B10.8 Granular Data Isolation .

for Customer Use, RSVDC for more information.
determines whether an interface supports GDI.
GDI_Support property options.
                                       Table B16.32: GDI_Support property options

for Customer Use, RSVDC for more information.
parameter is used to indicate the width of the RSVDC field on the DAT channel.
           Dat_RSVDC_Width property options.
                                        Table B16.31: Dat_RSVDC_Width property options
562

B16.1.31 GDI_Non_PE_RNF

The GDI_Non_PE_RNF property determines the behavior of an RN-F based on the internal presence of an Arm
PE.
Table B16.33 shows the GDI_Non_PE_RNF property options.

Table B16.33: GDI_Non_PE_RNF property options

GDI_Non_PE_RNF value Description

False or Not specified All requests, except for CleanInvalidPoPA, are not permitted to set the PAS field to System
Agent or Non-secure Protected.
The RN-F must respond with SnpResp_I to any incoming snoop with the PAS field set to
System Agent or Non-secure Protected.
The RN-F must not use DataPull in response to a stashing snoop where the PAS field is set to
System Agent or Non-secure Protected.


When BROADCASTCMOPOPA is 0 A CleanInvalidPoPA that targets a System Agent
or Non-secure Protected PAS must be terminated
within the RN-F.
A CleanInvalidPoPA that targets a Secure,
Non-secure, Root, or Realm PAS must be
converted to a CleanInvalid within the RN-F.
A PoPA Combined Write that targets a Secure,
Non-secure, Root, or Realm PAS must be
converted to a CleanInvalid equivalent
Combined Write within the RN-F.
When BROADCASTCMOPOPA is 1 A CleanInvalidPoPA is permitted to target any
legal PAS encoding.
A PoPA Combined Write is permitted to target a
Secure, Non-secure, Root, or Realm PAS.
A PoPA Combined Write is not permitted to
target a Non-secure Protected or System Agent
PAS.

True The RN-F is permitted to issue a request with the PAS field set to any legal encoding.
          The RN-F is permitted to allocate lines related to any legal PAS encoding.
The GDI_Non_PE_RNF property has the following conditions:
• When the GDI_Support property is True, the GDI_Non_PE_RNF property can be True or False.
• When the GDI_Support property is False, the GDI_Non_PE_RNF property must be False.
For further information, see B10.8 Granular Data Isolation .

B16.1.32 MECID_Mismatch_Resolution_Realm

The MECID_Mismatch_Resolution_Realm property determines the behavior of a Snoopee, cache, or Home Node
in response to a MECID mismatch.
Table B16.34 shows the MECID_Mismatch_Resolution_Realm property options.


563

Table B16.34: MECID_Mismatch_Resolution_Realm property options

MECID_Mismatch_Resolution_Realm value Description

False or Not specified No
 specific action is required to resolve a MECID mismatch in


MECID mismatch resolutionfor actions required to


For further information, see B10.8 Granular Data Isolation .

B16.1.33 CleanInvalidStorage_Request

The CleanInvalidStorage_Request property determines whether a component supports CleanInvalidStorage or a
related Combined Write transaction.
Table B16.35 shows the CleanInvalidStorage_Request property options.

Table B16.35: CleanInvalidStorage_Request options

CleanInvalidStorage_Request value Description

False or Not specified The


True The
 interface supports Cache Maintenance Operations or Combined Writes to
the PoPS.
The BROADCASTSTORAGEsignal must be present on a Requester or a
Home, or it is required that an alternative mechanism exists to control the
issuing of Cache Maintenance Operations or Combined Writes to the PoPS.


B16.1.34 

The Num_RP_REQ property determines how many Resource Planes are supported on an interface REQ channel.


Num_RP_REQ Description

Not specified The default value is 1.

2 The following encodings apply:
       REQFLITRP = 0b0 REQ RP ID is 0.
       REQFLITRP = 0b1 REQ RP ID is 1.

1 The following encodings apply:
       REQFLITRP = Not present

For further information, see B4.2.2.1 Cache Maintenance transactions .
Num_RP_REQ
The Num_RP_REQ property determines how many Resource Planes are supported on an interface REQ
Table B16.36 shows the Num_RP_REQ property options.
The Num_RP_REQ properties must have the same values for a Transmitter and Receiver on the same link.
                                                                               Table B16.36: Num_RP_REQ property options

False or Not specified The interface does not support Cache Maintenance Operations or Combined
                              Writes to the PoPS.

True See B10.8.1 MECID mismatch resolution for actions required to
      resolve a MECID mismatch in the Realm PAS.

False or Not specified No specific action is required to resolve a MECID mismatch
                             the Realm PAS.
REQ RP ID is 0.
REQ RP ID is 1.

Continued on next page

564

 

Table B16.36 –Continued from previous page

Num_RP_REQ Description

7 The following encodings apply:
       REQFLITRP = 0b000 REQ RP ID is 0.
       REQFLITRP = 0b001 REQ RP ID is 1.
       REQFLITRP = 0b010 REQ RP ID is 2.
       REQFLITRP = 0b011 REQ RP ID is 3.
       REQFLITRP = 0b100 REQ RP ID is 4.
       REQFLITRP = 0b101 REQ RP ID is 5.
       REQFLITRP = 0b110 REQ RP ID is 6.

6 The following encodings apply:
       REQFLITRP = 0b000 REQ RP ID is 0.
       REQFLITRP = 0b001 REQ RP ID is 1.
       REQFLITRP = 0b010 REQ RP ID is 2.
       REQFLITRP = 0b011 REQ RP ID is 3.
       REQFLITRP = 0b100 REQ RP ID is 4.
       REQFLITRP = 0b101 REQ RP ID is 5.

5 The following encodings apply:
       REQFLITRP = 0b000 REQ RP ID is 0.
       REQFLITRP = 0b001 REQ RP ID is 1.
       REQFLITRP = 0b010 REQ RP ID is 2.
       REQFLITRP = 0b011 REQ RP ID is 3.
       REQFLITRP = 0b100 REQ RP ID is 4.

4 The following encodings apply:
       REQFLITRP = 0b00 REQ RP ID is 0.
       REQFLITRP = 0b01 REQ RP ID is 1.
       REQFLITRP = 0b10 REQ RP ID is 2.
       REQFLITRP = 0b11 REQ RP ID is 3.

3 The following encodings apply:
       REQFLITRP = 0b00 REQ RP ID is 0.
       REQFLITRP = 0b01 REQ RP ID is 1.
       REQFLITRP = 0b10 REQ RP ID is 2.
Continued on next page


Copyright © 2014, 2017-2025 Arm Limited or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
565

Table B16.36 –Continued from previous page

Num_RP_REQ Description


For further information, see B14.2.1.2 Flow control with Resource Planes .

B16.1.35 Shared_Credits_REQ

The Shared_Credits_REQ property determines whether an interface supports shared credits on the REQ channel.
Table B16.37 shows the Shared_Credits_REQ property options.

 B16.37: Shared_Credits_REQ property options
Table

Shared_Credits_REQ

          When the Num_RP_REQ property is not defined or has a value of 1, the Shared_Credits_REQ property
          False.
          When the Num_RP_REQ property has a value between 2 to 8, the Shared_Credits_REQ property can be
          False.
          The Shared_Credits_REQ Property must have the same values for a Transmitter and Receiver on the same
          For further information, see B14.2.1.2 Flow control with Resource Planes .
B16.1.36 Num_RP_SNP
          The Num_RP_SNP property determines how many Resource Planes are supported on an interface SNP
          Table B16.38 shows the Num_RP_SNP property options.
          The Num_RP_SNP properties must have the same values for a Transmitter and Receiver on the same link.

True Shared credits are supported on the REQ channel.
              REQLCRDSHV and REQSHAREDCRD signals are present.

False or Not specified Shared credits are not supported on the REQ channel.
                                  REQLCRDSHV and REQSHAREDCRD signals are not present.

8 The following encodings apply:
       REQFLITRP = 0b000 REQ RP ID is 0.
       REQFLITRP = 0b001 REQ RP ID is 1.
       REQFLITRP = 0b010 REQ RP ID is 2.
       REQFLITRP = 0b011 REQ RP ID is 3.
       REQFLITRP = 0b100 REQ RP ID is 4.
       REQFLITRP = 0b101 REQ RP ID is 5.
       REQFLITRP = 0b110 REQ RP ID is 6.
       REQFLITRP = 0b111 REQ RP ID is 7.
When the Num_RP_REQ property is not defined or has a value of 1, the Shared_Credits_REQ property must be


 value Description


When the Num_RP_REQ property has a value between 2 to 8, the Shared_Credits_REQ property can be True or

The Shared_Credits_REQ Property must have the same values for a Transmitter and Receiver on the same link.


The Num_RP_SNP property determines how many Resource Planes are supported on an interface SNP channel.


566

Table B16.38: Num_RP_SNP property options

Num_RP_SNP Description

Not specified The default value is 1.

6 The following encodings apply:
       SNPFLITRP = 0b000 SNP RP ID is 0.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b001 SNP RP ID is 1.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b010 SNP RP ID is 2.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b011 SNP RP ID is 3.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b100 SNP RP ID is 4.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b101 SNP RP ID is 5.

5 The following encodings apply:
       SNPFLITRP = 0b000 SNP RP ID is 0.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b001 SNP RP ID is 1.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b010 SNP RP ID is 2.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b011 SNP RP ID is 3.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b100 SNP RP ID is 4.

4 The following encodings apply:
       SNPFLITRP = 0b00 SNP RP ID is 0.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b01 SNP RP ID is 1.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b10 SNP RP ID is 2.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b11 SNP RP ID is 3.

3 The following encodings apply:
       SNPFLITRP = 0b00 SNP RP ID is 0.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b01 SNP RP ID is 1.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b10 SNP RP ID is 2.

2 The following encodings apply:
       SNPFLITRP = 0b0 SNP RP ID is 0.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b1 SNP RP ID is 1.

1 The following encodings apply:
       SNPFLITRP = Not present
Continued on next page


Copyright © 2014, 2017-2025 Arm Limited or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
567

Table B16.38 –Continued from previous page

Num_RP_SNP Description


For further information, see B14.2.1.2 Flow control with Resource Planes .

B16.1.37 Shared_Credits_SNP

The Shared_Credits_SNP property determines whether an interface supports shared credits on the REQ channel.
Table B16.39 shows the Shared_Credits_SNP property options.

Table B16.39: Shared_Credits_SNP property options

Shared_Credits_SNP value Description


True
Shared credits are supported on the REQ channel.
SNPLCRDSHV and SNPSHAREDCRD signals are present.

When the Num_RP_SNP property is not defined or has a value of 1, the Shared_Credits_SNP property
False.
When the Num_RP_SNP property has a value between 2 to 8, the Shared_Credits_SNP property can be
False.
The Shared_Credits_SNP Property must have the same values for a Transmitter and Receiver on the same

False or Not specified Shared credits are not supported on the REQ channel.
                                  SNPLCRDSHV and SNPSHAREDCRD signals are not present.

8 The following encodings apply:
       SNPFLITRP = 0b000 SNP RP ID is 0.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b001 SNP RP ID is 1.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b010 SNP RP ID is 2.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b011 SNP RP ID is 3.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b100 SNP RP ID is 4.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b101 SNP RP ID is 5.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b110 SNP RP ID is 6.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b111 SNP RP ID is 7.

7 The following encodings apply:
       SNPFLITRP = 0b000 SNP RP ID is 0.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b001 SNP RP ID is 1.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b010 SNP RP ID is 2.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b011 SNP RP ID is 3.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b100 SNP RP ID is 4.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b101 SNP RP ID is 5.
       SNPFLITRP = 0b110 SNP RP ID is 6.
When the Num_RP_SNP property is not defined or has a value of 1, the Shared_Credits_SNP property must be

When the Num_RP_SNP property has a value between 2 to 8, the Shared_Credits_SNP property can be True or

The Shared_Credits_SNP Property must have the same values for a Transmitter and Receiver on the same link.

568

For further information, see B14.2.1.2 Flow control with Resource Planes .

B16.1.38 Retry_Support

The Retry_Support property determines whether a Requester or Completer supports a Retry transaction flow.


Table B16.40: Retry_Support property options

Table B16.40 shows the Retry_Support property options.


Retry_Support value Description

The interface does not support transaction Retry.
A Completer must not respond with a RetryAck to an incoming request.

RP0_Only The interface supports transaction Retry on RP0 only.
          A Completer can respond with a RetryAck, when permitted, to
          incoming request on RP0.
          A Completer must not respond with a RetryAck to an incoming
          on RP1 to RP7.

False The interface does not support transaction Retry.
       A Completer must not respond with a RetryAck to an incoming request.
The interface supports transaction Retry on RP0 only.
A Completer can respond with a RetryAck, when permitted, to an
incoming request on RP0.
A Completer must not respond with a RetryAck to an incoming request
on RP1 to RP7.


Table B16.41: Retry_Support Interoperability


True or Not Specified The interface supports transaction Retry.
A Completer can respond with a RetryAck, when permitted, for an
incoming request.


When Num_RP_REQ is 1, the Retry_Support property must not be RP0_Only.
Table B16.41 shows the interoperability rules for Retry_Support.


Requester: True Requester:
 RP0_Only Requester: False

Completer: True
Compatible. Not
 compatible. Not
 compatible.
If the Completer issues a If the Completer issues a
RetryAck to a request on RetryAck to a request, the
RP1 to RP7, the system system could deadlock.
could deadlock.

Completer: RP0_Only Compatible. Compatible.
 Not
 compatible.
If the Completer issues a
RetryAck to a request on
RP0, the system could
deadlock.

Completer: False
Compatible. Compatible.
 Compatible.


For further information, see B2.10 Request Retry.

B16.1.39 MultiReq_Support

The MultiReq_Support property determines whether Multi-request is supported on an interface.
Table B16.42 shows the MultiReq_Support property options.

569

Chapter B16. Properties,
 

Table B16.42: MultiReq_Support options

MultiReq_Support value Requester Home
 Subordinate
False, or not defined
Note It is recommended that this MultiReq_Support property value is only used to describe implementations using
Issue G or earlier.
Multi-request is not supported.


CacheLineID_Accurate


MultiReq and NumReq are present, but must be 0.
CacheLineID is present and when applicable, must be 0 or driven accurately.


Note For Issue H or later, it is recommended that Request Node or Subordinate Node implementations use this
MultiReq_Support property value as a minimum value. Driving an accurate CacheLineID field allows that component
to be used as part of a DCT, DMT, or DWT transaction flow, even if the component itself does not fully support the

 applicable. Multi-request
 is not supported.
Multi-request feature.
Multi-request is not supported. Not

MultiReq_Support
property value of True or
False.

The MultiReq and NumReq fields are present, but
must be 0.
The MultiReq and NumReq fields are present, butHome can only have a
must be 0.


The CacheLineID field is present and can take
non-zero values when applicable.
The CacheLineID field is present and can take
non-zero values when applicable.
When acting as a Snoopee, it is required to send
Must send the correct CacheLineID value for
packets it generates, when the message is one of
the following:
– CompData
– DataSepResp
– DBIDResp


the correct CacheLineID value for the packets
that it generates, when the message is one of the
following:
– CompData
– SnpRespData


when Home uses a DWT flow for a

Note
Node requires an accurate CacheLineID
for identification by a Request Node

multi-request transaction.


A DBIDResp from a Subordinate
– SnpRespDataPtl
– SnpRespDataFwded
When acting as a Requester, it is required to drive
the CacheLineID field in CompAck messages.
The Request Node must not make any functional
use of the CacheLineID values from the
In all other messages where the CacheLineID
field is applicable, it must either be 0 or driven
accurately.

incoming messages. The method to set the
CacheLineID field value in CompAck is
IMPLEMENTATION SPECIFIC and must either be:
– Addr [11:6] of the original request
– Reflected from a related incoming
message.

Note In some systems, a downstream
component might have the
MultiReq_Support property set to False,
and drive to 0 on the CacheLineID fields
of messages it generates. It is permitted
that if this value is reflected by the
Request Node into the CompAck, the
resulting CacheLineID field may not be
accurate as the Home is able to identify
the transaction using the TxnID field for a
non-multi-request transaction.

True Multi-request is supported.
      The MultiReq , NumReq , and CacheLineID fields are present and can take non-zero values when applicable.
                                                                                                                     Continued on next
570


In all other messages where the CacheLineID
field is applicable, it must either be 0 or driven
accurately.


Continued on next page

Table B16.42 –Continued from previous page
MultiReq_Support value Requester Home
 Subordinate
The CacheLineID field must be driven correctly for any packets that the component generates.


The Home is permitted, but not required, to use a DCT, DMT or DWT flow as part of a multi-request transaction if
the Subordinate Node or Snoopee has MultiReq_Support set to True or CacheLineID_Accurate.
The Home is not permitted to use a DCT flow as part of a multi-request transaction if the Snoopee has


Multi-request.


MultiReq_Support set to False.
The Home must not use a DMT or DWT flow as part of a multi-request transaction if the Subordinate Node has
MultiReq_Support set to False.
For further information, see B2.6

B16.1.40 MultiReq_Requester_Retry_Support

The MultiReq_Requester_Retry_Support property determines whether a Requester is enabled to support a Retry
mechanism in response to a multi-request transaction.
Table B16.44 shows the MultiReq_Requester_Retry_Support property options.

Table B16.43: MultiReq_Requester_Retry_Support property options

MultiReq_Requester_Retry_Support value Description

False or Not specified Multi-request
 is not supported.


The Requester does not support RetryAck, as determined by the
Retry_Support property.

Single_RP0 Multi-request
 is supported.
The Requester only supports a single RetryAck response to a
multi-request transaction on RP0, as determined by the
Retry_Support property.

Single Multi-request is supported.
                       The Requester only supports a single RetryAck response to a
                       multi-request transaction.

None Multi-request is supported.
                    The Requester does not support RetryAck, as determined by
                    Retry_Support property.
Single Multi-request
The Requester only supports a single RetryAck response to a
multi-request transaction.


Multi-request.


MultiReq_Requester_Retry_Support must be False when MultiReq_Support is False or CacheLineID_Accurate.
MultiReq_Requester_Retry_Support must be Single or Single_RP0 when MultiReq_Support is True.
For further information, see B2.6

B16.1.41 MultiReq_Completer_Retry_Support

The MultiReq_Completer_Retry_Support property determines whether a Completer is enabled to support a Retry
mechanism in response to a multi-request transaction.
Table B16.44 shows the MultiReq_Completer_Retry_Support property options.


571

Table B16.44: MultiReq_Completer_Retry_Support property options

MultiReq_Completer_Retry_Support value Description

False or Not specified Multi-request
 is not supported.


The Completer does not support RetryAck, as determined by the


Single_RP0 Multi-request
 is supported.
The Completer only supports a single RetryAck response to a
multi-request transaction on RP0, as determined by the
Retry_Support property.

      MultiReq_Completer_Retry_Support must be False when MultiReq_Support is False or CacheLineID_Accurate.
      MultiReq_Completer_Retry_Support must be Single or Single_RP0 when MultiReq_Support is True.
The MultiReq_Requester_Retry_Support and MultiReq_Completer_Retry_Support property values on the
link must match.
For further information, see B2.6 Multi-request .

Single Multi-request is supported.
                       The Completer only supports a single RetryAck response to a
                       multi-request transaction.

None Multi-request is supported.
                    The Completer does not support RetryAck, as determined by
                    Retry_Support property.
572