Chapter B2. Transactions
B2.10. Request

When the Requester receives PCrdGrant, the request can be re-sent in a second attempt with a credit allocation
indication. The credit allocation indication is performed when the AllowRetry field is 0. The second attempt to
carry out the transaction is guaranteed to be accepted.
The transaction that is re-sent must have the same field values as the original request, except when the field is
inapplicable or is one of the following:
• QoS
• TgtID , see B3.3.1 TgtID determination for Request messages .
• TxnID
• ReturnTxnID for:
– ReadNoSnp and ReadNoSnpSep from the Home Node to the Subordinate Node, and a DMT flow is not
being used.
WriteNoSnp or Combined Write from the Home Node to the Subordinate Node, and a DWT flow is not
–
being used.
• DataTarget
• AllowRetry , which must be 0.
• PCrdType , which must be set to the value in the Retry response for the original transaction.
• TraceTag
• RSVDC
• CAH
• PrefetchTgtHint
A transaction that is re-sent is:
• Required to use the same REQ channel RP.
• Permitted, but not required, to use a different credit type from the dedicated or shared categories.
For more information on Resource Planes, see B14.2.1.2 Flow control with Resource Planes .
If a RetryAck is received for a CopyBack Write and the data is later invalidated by a snoop, upon receiving
PCrdGrant, the Requester can either:
• Drop the Write request and return the received credit with a PCrdReturn message.
• Send the Write request with AllowRetry set to 0, knowing that the subsequent data response is
CopyBackWriteData_I.
There is no fixed relationship between credits and particular transactions. If a Requester has received multiple
RetryAck responses for different transactions and then receives a credit, there is no fixed credit allocation. The
Requester is free to choose the most appropriate transaction from the list of transactions that receives a RetryAck
response with that particular Protocol Credit Type.
The Retry mechanism supports up to 16 different credit types. This lets the Completer use different credit types for
different resources. For example, a Completer could use one credit type for the resources associated with Read
transactions, and another credit type for Write transactions. Using different credit types gives the Completer the
ability to efficiently manage its resources by controlling which of the retried requests can be sent again.
A Completer supporting Request Retry must be able to record all the RetryAck responses to ensure credits are
correctly distributed. If the Completer is using more than one credit type, the RetryAck responses that have been
given for each credit type must be recorded. For each RP, a Completer must either provide a credit type that does
not depend on progress of any other RP, or allow that RP to share a credit type with other Resource Planes while
guaranteeing forward progress for that RP.
The transaction must only be retried by the Requester when a PCrdGrant is received with the correct PCrdType .


ARM IHI 0050
179

Chapter B2. Transactions
B2.10. Request


Note
If a Completer supporting Request Retry is only using one credit type, it is recommended that the PCrdType
value of 0b0000 is used. See B2.10.2.2 PCrdType .

A Requester supporting Request Retry must limit the number of issued transactions so that the Completer is never
required to track more than 1024 transactions that require a PCrdGrant response. This is achieved by limiting the
maximum number of outstanding transactions to 1024 for each Requester.
A multi-request is treated as a single entity with regard to a transaction Retry flow. That is, if a multi-request
transaction has to be retried, a single RetryAck message and PCrdGrant message covers the entire transaction.
A transaction is outstanding from the cycle that the request is first issued until either:
• The transaction is fully completed, as determined by the return of all the following responses that are
expected for the transaction:
– ReadReceipt
– CompData


B2.10.1


– RespSepData
– DataSepResp
– DBIDResp*
– Comp, CompCMO, CompPersist, and CompStashDone
– CompDBIDResp
• RetryAck and PCrdGrant is received and either the request is:
– Retried using a credit of the appropriate PCrdType and subsequently is fully completed as determined
by the return of all responses.
– Canceled and returns the received credit using the PCrdReturn message.
A Requester can reuse the TxnID value used by a request either:
• As soon as a RetryAck response is received for that request.
• As soon as all the required responses are received for that request if the received responses are
Non-RetryAck responses.
Each transaction request includes a QoS value which can be used by the Completer to influence the allocation of
credits as resources become available. See B11.1 Quality of Service (QoS) mechanism for further details.

 Credit Return

It is possible for a Requester to be given more P-Credits than required.
This specification does not define when this can occur, but two typical scenarios are:
• A transaction is canceled between the first attempt and the point at which the request can be re-sent with
P-Credit.
• A transaction is requested multiple times with increasing QoS values. However, only a single completion of
the transaction is required.


ARM IHI 0050


Note
If a Requester makes a second request before the first request has received a RetryAck response, both
transactions must be acceptable to occur. However, as an example, this behavior would typically not be
acceptable for accesses to a peripheral device.

A Requester returns a credit by the use of the PCrdReturn transaction. This is effectively a No Operation
transaction that uses the credit that is not required. This transaction is used to inform the Completer that the


180

allocated resources are no longer required for the given PCrdType .
Any credits that are not required must be returned in a timely manner.

Note


B2.10.2
 mechanism


Any unused pre-allocated credit must be returned to avoid components holding on to credits in expectation
of using them later. Such behavior is likely to result in an inefficient use of resources and to make analysis of
the system performance difficult.

 Transaction Retry

The following sections describe the Request transaction fields used by the Retry mechanism.
B2.10.2.1 AllowRetry
The AllowRetry field indicates if the Request transaction can be given a RetryAck response. Support for the Retry
Request mechanism at a Requester or Completer is determined by the component Retry_Support property. See
Table B13.25 for the AllowRetry value encodings. The AllowRetry field must be 1 for the first time a transaction
is sent.
The AllowRetry field must be 0 when the transaction is using a pre-allocated P-Credit.


0b0000 be


The AllowRetry field must be 1 when using a PrefetchTgt transaction. A Subordinate Node must not respond with
a RetryAck response to a PrefetchTgt transaction.
B2.10.2.2 PCrdType
The PCrdType field indicates the credit type associated with the request and is determined as follows:
• For a Request transaction:
– If the AllowRetry field is 1, the PCrdType field must .
– If the AllowRetry field is 0, the PCrdType field must be set to the value that was returned in the
RetryAck response from the Completer when the transaction was first attempted.

Protocol Credit Type, PCrdType for the PCrdType value encodings.
• A PCrdReturn transaction must have the credit type set to the value of the credit type that is being returned.
See B13.10.37
• For destinations that have a single credit class, or do not implement credit type classification, it is
0 is b0000.
recommended that the PCrdType field 

Note
IMPLEMENTATION is
 SPECIFIC
The value a Completer assigns to PCrdType
.

The Completer must implement a starvation prevention mechanism to ensure that all transactions, irrespective of
QoS value or credit type required, eventually make forward progress, even if over a significantly long time period.

Quality of Service (QoS) mechanism for more details on the distribution of credits for the
This is done by ensuring that credits are eventually given to every transaction that has received a RetryAck
response. See B11.1
purposes of QoS .

B2.10.3 Transaction Retry flow

Figure B2.50 shows a typical Transaction Retry flow.


181

RN-F
HN-F

ReadOnce
(AllowRetry = 1)
HN-F buffer entry not gained
(PCrdtype = 0b0000)
(Log credit request)
RetryAck
(PCrdType = n)
(P-Credit allocated)
PCrdGrant
Wait for
(PCrdType = n)
P-Credit

ReadOnce
(AllowRetry = 0)
(PCrdtype = n)


n = 0x0 to 0xF

Figure B2.50: Transaction


The steps that Figure B2.50 shows are:


 Retry flow


1. The RN-F sends a ReadOnce request to the HN-F.
• This is done without a credit, so AllowRetry is 1. This means PCrdType must 0b0000 be.
2. The HN-F receives the request and sends a RetryAck response because the request is not able to gain buffer
entry at the HN-F.
• The request is logged and a PCrdType is determined at the HN-F.
3. The HN-F sends a P-Credit, using the PCrdGrant response, when a resource has been allocated for the
transaction.
• The PCrdGrant includes the PCrdType allocated for the original request.
4. The RN-F re-sends the ReadOnce transaction with AllowRetry = 0.
• The request uses the P-Credit and sets the PCrdType field to the value allocated for the original request.
It is permitted, but not expected, for a Completer to send a PCrdGrant before the associated RetryAck response is
sent.

Note
The Requester could receive PCrdGrant before RetryAck.
The transaction must not be re-sent until both a RetryAck response and an appropriate P-Credit is received
for the transaction.


182

Chapter B3
Network Layer


This chapter describes the network layer that is required to determine the node ID of a destination node. It contains
the following sections:
• B3.1 System Address Map, SAM
• B3.2 Node ID
• B3.3 TgtID determination
• B3.4 Network layer flow examples


183