Table B2.2 –Continued from previous page

Field Affects
 structure Description


PrefetchTgtHint No PrefetchTgt
 Hint. Indicates that the original request had an associated
PrefetchTgt request. A Chip-to-Chip link receiver can use this field to
recreate the PrefetchTgt request if it is known that the original
PrefetchTgt was dropped at the Chip-to-Chip link transmitter. See
B13.10.57 PrefetchTgt Hint, PrefetchTgtHint .


StashLPIDValid No Stash
 Logical Processor Identifier Valid. Indicates that the StashLPID
field value is the Stash target. See B13.10.12 Stash Logical Processor
Identifier Valid, StashLPIDValid .

StashLPID No Stash
 Logical Processor Identifier. The identifier of the Logical
Processor (LP) at the Stash target. See B13.10.11 Stash Logical
Processor Identifier, StashLPID .

 opcode. Specifies the transaction type and is the primary field


MultiReq Yes Multi-request
 transaction. Used with NumReq to indicate the total
amount of Data associated with the transaction. See B13.10.64
MultiReq.

NumReq Yes
Number of requests. Used with MultiReq to indicate the total amount of
Data associated with the transaction. See B13.10.65 NumReq.

 size. Specifies the size of the data associated with the transaction


 The address of the memory location being accessed for Read


LikelyShared No Likely
 Shared. Provides an allocation hint for downstream caches. See
B2.8.5 Likely Shared.

PCrdType No Protocol Credit Type. Indicates the type of Protocol Credit being
                        by a request when the B13.10.31 Allow Retry, AllowRetry field is 0. See
                        B2.10 Request Retry .

Order Yes Order requirement. Determines the ordering requirement for a request
                   with respect to other requests from the same agent. See B2.7 Ordering .

AllowRetry Yes Allow Retry. Determines if a target that supports Request Retry is
                        permitted to give a RetryAck response. See B2.10 Request Retry and
                                   Retry_Support.

PAS No Physical Address Space. Indicates the PAS that the transaction is
                  targeting. See B13.10.68 PAS .

Addr No Address. The address of the memory location being accessed for
                    and Write requests. See B2.8.1 Address and B13.10.20 Address, Addr .

Size Yes Data size. Specifies the size of the data associated with the transaction
                and determines the number of data packets within the transaction.
                B2.9 Data transfer .

Opcode Yes Request opcode. Specifies the transaction type and is the primary
                      that determines the transaction structure. See B4.2 Request types and
                      B13.10.18.1 REQ channel opcodes .

ReturnTxnID No Return Transaction Identifier. The unique transaction identifier that
                         conveys the value of TxnID in the data response from the Subordinate.
                         See B2.4.4 Return Transaction Identifier, ReturnTxnID .

Deep No Deep persistence. Indicates that the Persist response must not be
                until all earlier writes are written to the final destination. See B4.2.2.2.3
                Deep Persistent CMO .
 Credit Type. Indicates the type of Protocol Credit being used


Continued on next page


Copyright © 2014, 2017-2025 Arm Limited or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
47

Table B2.2 –Continued from previous page

Field Affects
 structure Description

MemAttr No
Memory attribute. Determines the memory attributes associated with the
transaction. See B2.8.3Memory Attributes.

SnpAttr No


DoDWT Yes Do
 Direct Write Transfer. Supports Direct Write-data Transfer and the
handling of Combined Writes. See B13.10.24 Do Direct Write Transfer,
DoDWT.

PGroupID No


Stash Group Identifier,
Stash Group Identifier. Indicates the set of StashOnceSep transactions to


TagGroupID No
IMPLEMENTATION SPECIFIC .
Tag Group Identifier. Precise contents are
Translation Table Base
Typically expected to contain Exception Level,
Tag Group
Register (TTBR) value, and CPU identifier. See B13.10.41
.
Identifier, TagGroupID

LPID No
 Processor Identifier. Used with the SrcID field to uniquely
Logical Processor


Exclusive accesses

SnoopMe No


CopyAtHome. In CopyBack requests, CAH indicates to the Home if the


ExpCompAck Yes Expect


Requester modifies the line or MTE tags since Home indicated a copy of


 CompAck. Indicates that the transaction includes a completion
acknowledge message. See B2.3 Transaction structure and B2.7
Ordering.

 Operation. Indicates the operation to be performed and on the tags

TraceTag No Trace Tag. Provides extra support for the debugging, tracing, and
                             performance measurement of systems. See Chapter B11 System Control,
                     Debug, Trace, and Monitoring .

TagOp Yes Tag Operation. Indicates the operation to be performed and on the
                 present in the corresponding DAT channel. See B13.10.38 Tag
                          Operation, TagOp .

CAH Yes CopyAtHome. In CopyBack requests, CAH indicates to the Home if
         Requester modifies the line or MTE tags since Home indicated a copy
         the line was kept. See B13.10.28 CopyAtHome, CAH .

SnoopMe No Snoop Me. Indicates that Home must determine whether to send a
                    snoop to the Requester during an Atomic transaction. See B2.3.3
                    Atomic transactions .

Excl No Exclusive access. Indicates that the corresponding transaction is an
                    Exclusive access transaction. See Chapter B6 Exclusive accesses .

LPID No Logical Processor Identifier. Used with the SrcID field to uniquely
                   identify the LP that generated the request. See B2.4.7 Logical Processor
                   Identifier, LPID .

StashGroupID No Stash Group Identifier. Indicates the set of StashOnceSep transactions
                  which the request applies. See B13.10.13 Stash Group Identifier,
                         StashGroupID .

PGroupID No Persistence Group Identifier. Indicates the set of CleanSharedPersistSep
                     transactions to which the request applies. See B13.10.8 Persistence
              Group Identifier, PGroupID .

SnpAttr No Snoop attribute. Specifies the snoop attributes associated with the
                        transaction. See B2.8.6 Snoop attribute .
System Control,


MPAM No
 Memory
 System Resource Partitioning and Monitoring. Efficiently
utilizes the memory resources among users and monitors their use. See
B11.4 MPAM.

Continued on next page


Copyright © 2014, 2017-2025 Arm Limited or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
48

Table B2.2 –Continued from previous page

Field Affects
 structure Description

 Hardware Attributes. 4 bits from the translation tables that


 Identifier. Used as a unique identifier of a stream of requests


SecSID1 No Security
 State. Qualifies the Security state of the StreamID . See
B13.10.63 Stream Identifier Security State, SecSID1

RSVDC No User-defined.
 See B13.10.60 Reserved for Customer Use, RSVDC .


B2.2.2 Response fields

Table B2.3 describes the fields associated with a Response packet.

Table B2.3: Response packet fields

Field Description


Transaction


Opcode Response
 opcode. Specifies response type. See B13.10.18.2 RSP
channel opcodes.

RespErr Response
 Error status. As defined in Table B2.5 . See Chapter B6
Exclusive accesses and B9.1.2 Error response fields .

Resp Response
 status. As defined in Table B2.5 . See B4.5 Response types.


CBusy
Completer Busy. As defined in Table B2.5 . See B11.6 Completer Busy.

DBID Data Buffer Identifier. As defined in Table B2.5 . See B2.4.3 Data Buffer
      Identifier, DBID and B2.7 Ordering .

DataPull Data Pull. As defined in Table B2.5 . See B7.1.1 Snoop requests and
                Data Pull .

FwdState Forward State. As defined in Table B2.5 . See B13.10.47 Forward State,
                   FwdState .

TxnID Transaction Identifier. As defined in Table B2.2 . See B2.4.2 Transaction
       Identifier, TxnID .

SrcID Source Identifier. As defined in Table B2.2 . See B2.4.1 Target Identifier,
       TgtID, and Source Identifier, SrcID .

TgtID Target Identifier. As defined in Table B2.2 . See B2.4.1 Target Identifier,
               TgtID, and Source Identifier, SrcID .

QoS Quality of Service priority. As defined in Table B2.2 . See B11.1 Quality
     of Service (QoS) mechanism .

StreamID No Stream Identifier. Used as a unique identifier of a stream of requests
                              originating from one or a set of Requesters associated with the same
                      System MMU context. See B13.10.62 Stream Identifier, StreamID .

MECID No Memory Encryption Context Identifier. Used by a memory encryption
                   engine as an index into a table of encryption contexts, either keys
                   tweaks, that contribute to the external memory encryption. See B10.6
                   Memory Encryption Contexts, MEC .

PBHA No Page-based Hardware Attributes. 4 bits from the translation tables
                      can be used for IMPLEMENTATION DEFINED hardware control. See
                      B11.5 Page-based Hardware Attributes .
49

Table B2.3 –Continued from previous page

Field Description

PGroupID Persistence


StashGroupID Stash


PCrdType Protocol Credit Type. See B2.10.2.2 PCrdType .

 Operation,


System B11


CacheLineID Cache line identifier. See B13.10.66 CacheLineID.


B2.2.3 Snoop request fields

Table B2.4 shows the Snoop request fields. Many of the Snoop request fields are the same as fields defined for the
Request channel.

Table B2.4: Snoop request fields

Field Affects
 structure Description


SrcID No
Target


TxnID No
Transaction


FwdNID No Forward
 Node Identifier. The node identifier of the original Requester.
See B2.4.12 Forward Node Identifier, FwdNID .

PBHA No
 Hardware Attributes. 4 bits from the translation tables that
hardware control. See


FwdTxnID No Forward
 Transaction Identifier. The transaction identifier used in the
Request by the original Requester. See B2.4.5 Forward Transaction
Identifier, FwdTxnID.

StashLPIDValid No Stash Logical Processor Identifier Valid. As defined in Table B2.2 .
                           B7.5 Stash messages .

PBHA No Page-based Hardware Attributes. 4 bits from the translation tables
                      can be used for IMPLEMENTATION DEFINED hardware control. See
                      B11.5 Page-based Hardware Attributes .

TxnID No Transaction Identifier. As defined in Table B2.2 . See B2.4.2 Transaction
           Identifier, TxnID .

SrcID No Source Identifier. As defined in Table B2.2 . See B2.4.1 Target Identifier,
           TgtID, and Source Identifier, SrcID .

QoS No Quality of Service priority. As defined in Table B2.2 . See B11.1 Quality
        of Service (QoS) mechanism .

TraceTag Trace Tag. As defined in Table B2.2 . See Chapter System B11 Control,
                 Debug, Trace, and Monitoring .

TagOp Tag Operation. As defined in Table B2.2 . See B13.10.38 Tag Operation,
       TagOp .

TagGroupID Tag Group Identifier. As defined in Table B2.2 . See B13.10.41 Tag
                 Group Identifier, TagGroupID .

StashGroupID Stash Group Identifier. As defined in Table B2.2 . See B13.10.13 Stash
                     Group Identifier, StashGroupID .

PGroupID Persistence Group Identifier. As defined in Table B2.2 . See B13.10.8
              Persistence Group Identifier, PGroupID .
 Logical Processor Identifier Valid. As defined in Table B2.2 . See


StashLPID No Stash
 Logical Processor Identifier. As defined in Table B2.2 . See B7.5
Stash messages.

VMIDExt No Virtual
 Machine Identifier Extension. See B8.3.3 Snoop DVMOp field
value restrictions.


50

Table B2.4 –Continued from previous page

Field Affects
 structure Description

Opcode Yes
 Snoop
 opcode. See B13.10.18.3 SNP channel opcodes .

Addr No
Address. The address of the memory location being accessed for Snoop
requests. See B2.8.1Address and B13.10.20 Address, Addr.

PAS No
 Physical
 Address Space. See B13.10.68 PAS.

 Not Go To SD state. Controls Snoopee use of SD state. See B4.10


Return to Source. Instructs the Receiver of the snoop to return data with


 System Resource Partitioning and Monitoring. As defined in


MECID No


Note
This specification does not define a TgtID field for the Snoop request. See TgtID B3.3 determination.

B2.2.4 Data fields

Table B2.5 describes the fields associated with a Data packet. Data packets can be sent on the RDAT or WDAT
channels. The fields in a Data packet do not affect the transaction structure.

Table B2.5: Data packet fields

Field Description


TgtID Target


Transaction

HomeNID Home Node Identifier. The node identifier of the target of the
         response to be sent from the Requester. See B2.4.11 Home Node
         Identifier, HomeNID .

TxnID Transaction Identifier. As defined in Table B2.2 . See B2.4.2 Transaction
       Identifier, TxnID .

SrcID Source Identifier. As defined in Table B2.2 . See B2.4.1 Target Identifier,
       TgtID, and Source Identifier, SrcID .

TgtID Target Identifier. As defined in Table B2.2 . See B2.4.1 Target Identifier,
               TgtID, and Source Identifier, SrcID .

QoS Quality of Service priority. As defined in Table B2.2 . See B11.1 Quality
     of Service (QoS) mechanism .

MECID No Memory Encryption Context Identifier. Used by a memory encryption
                   engine as an index into a table of encryption contexts, either keys
                   tweaks, that contribute to the external memory encryption. See B10.6
                   Memory Encryption Contexts, MEC .

MPAM No Memory System Resource Partitioning and Monitoring. As defined
                  Table B2.2 . See B11.4 MPAM .

TraceTag No Trace Tag. As defined in Table B2.2 . See Chapter System B11 Control,
                     Debug, Trace, and Monitoring .

RetToSrc Yes Return to Source. Instructs the Receiver of the snoop to return data
               the Snoop response. See B4.9 Returning Data with Snoop response .

DoNotGoToSD No Do Not Go To SD state. Controls Snoopee use of SD state. See
                     Do not transition to SD .
Home Node Identifier. The node identifier of the target of the CompAck


51

Chapter B2. Transactions
B2.2. Channel

Table B2.5 –Continued from previous page

Field Description

MismatchedMECID Mismatched Memory Encryption Context ID. See B13.10.67
MismatchedMECID.

 Hardware Attributes. 4 bits from the translation tables that


Opcode Data
 opcode. Indicates, for example, if the data packet is related to a


RespErr Response
 Error status. Indicates the error status associated with a data
Error response


DataSource Data
 Source. The value indicates the source of the data in a Read Data
response, and can provide additional information on the state of the data


FwdState Forward
transfer to the Requester from the receiver of the snoop. See B13.10.47


Data Pull. Indicates the inclusion of an implied Read request in the Data


MECID Memory


DBID Data


DataID Data
 Identifier. Provides the address offset of the data provided in the


CacheLineID Cache line identifier. See B13.10.66 CacheLineID.

 Operation,


Memory Tag. Provides sets of 4-bit tags. Each tag is associated with an

TU Tag Update. Indicates which of the Allocation Tags must be updated.
        See B13.10.40 Tag Update, TU .

Tag Memory Tag. Provides sets of 4-bit tags. Each tag is associated with
     aligned 16-byte of data See B13.10.39 Tag .

TagOp Tag Operation. As defined in Table B2.2 . See B13.10.38 Tag Operation,
       TagOp .

DataID Data Identifier. Provides the address offset of the data provided in
              packet. See B2.9 Data transfer .

CCID Critical Chunk Identifier. Replicates the address offset of the original
               Transaction request. See B2.9 Data transfer .

DBID Data Buffer Identifier. The identifier to be used as the TxnID in the
            response to the Data message. See B2.4.3 Data Buffer Identifier, DBID
            and B2.7 Ordering .

MECID Memory Encryption Context Identifier. Used by a memory encryption
               engine as an index into a table of encryption contexts, either keys
               tweaks, that contribute to the external memory encryption. See B10.6
               Memory Encryption Contexts, MEC .

CBusy Completer Busy. Indicates the current level of activity at the Completer.
       See B11.6 Completer Busy .

DataPull Data Pull. Indicates the inclusion of an implied Read request in the
          response. See B7.1.1 Snoop requests and Data Pull .

FwdState Forward State. Indicates the cache line state associated with a data
                   transfer to the Requester from the receiver of the snoop. See B13.10.47
                   Forward State, FwdState .

DataSource Data Source. The value indicates the source of the data in a Read
                  response, and can provide additional information on the state of the
                  in a system. See B11.2 Data Source .

Resp Response status. Indicates the cache line state associated with a data
               transfer. See B4.5 Response types .

RespErr Response Error status. Indicates the error status associated with a
                   transfer. See Chapter B6 Exclusive accesses and B9.1.2 Error response
                   fields .

Opcode Data opcode. Indicates, for example, if the data packet is related to
              Read transaction, a Write transaction, or a Snoop transaction. See
              B13.10.18.4 DAT channel opcodes .

PBHA Page-based Hardware Attributes. 4 bits from the translation tables
                 can be used for IMPLEMENTATION DEFINED hardware control. See
                 B11.5 Page-based Hardware Attributes .
ARM IHI 0050
Copyright © 2014, 2017-2025 Arm Limited or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
52

Chapter B2. Transactions
 

Table B2.5 –Continued from previous page

Field Description


CAH CopyAtHome.
 In responses from Home or a Snoopee, indicates if the
Home keeps a copy of the line that is provided to the Requester. Also
defined in Table B2.2 . For more information, see B13.10.28
CopyAtHome, CAH.

NumDat Indicates
 the number of additional DAT packets represented by the
transferred packet when using Limited Data Elision. See B13.10.58
Number of DAT packets elided, NumDat .

 in combination with NumDat to establish the field values for any


RSVDC User-defined.
 See B13.10.60 Reserved for Customer Use, RSVDC .

 Enable. For a data write, or data provided in response to a snoop,


Data Data
 payload. See B2.9 Data transfer.

Poison Poison. Indicates that a set of data bytes has previously been corrupted.
                 See B9.2.1 Poison .

DataCheck Data Check. Detects Data Errors in the DAT packet. See B9.2.2 Data
                 Check .

BE Byte Enable. For a data write, or data provided in response to a
             indicates which bytes are valid. See B2.9 Data transfer .

Replicate Used in combination with NumDat to establish the field values for
                 elided DAT packets. See B13.10.59 Replicate .

TraceTag Trace Tag. As defined in Table B2.2 . See Chapter System B11 Control,
                 Debug, Trace, and Monitoring .
53