Chapter B2. Transactions
B2.4. Transaction identifier fields

by the SrcID . This ensures that any returning read data or response information can be associated with the correct


Request B2.10


transaction.
A 12-bit field is defined for the TxnID with the number of outstanding transactions limited to 1024. A Requester is
permitted to reuse a TxnID value after receiving either:
• All responses associated with a previous transaction that have used the TxnID value from the request that is
not subject to a request retry.

Note
A Requester is permitted to reuse a TxnID when there is still an outstanding TagMatch, StashDone, or
Persist response.
The TxnID in TagMatch, StashDone, and Persist responses is inapplicable and must be set to 0. The
mapping of these responses back to their original transaction is achieved through the TagGroupID ,
StashGroupID and PGroupID fields.

• A RetryAck response for a previous transaction that used the TxnID value from the request.
B2.5 Transaction identifier field flows gives more detailed rules for the different transaction types. The TxnID field
is not applicable in a PrefetchTgt request and must be 0.
A value used in the TxnID field of a Request from Home to Subordinate can be reused by Home once all responses
that are required to deallocate the request are received or a RetryAck response is received.
A transaction that is retried is not required to use the same TxnID . See Retry.

B2.4.3 Data Buffer Identifier, DBID

The DBID field permits the Completer of a transaction to provide its own identifier for a transaction. The
Completer sends a response that includes a DBID . The DBID value is used as the TxnID field value in the:
• WriteData response of Immediate Write, CopyBack Write, Combined Write, Atomic, and DVMOp
transactions.
• CompData response of Stash transactions for Data Pull purposes.
• CompAck response of:
– Read, Dataless, WriteNoSnp , WriteUnique , and Immediate Combined Write transcations that include a
CompAck response.
– CopyBack transactions that complete without a data transfer.
The DBID value used by a Completer in responses of a given transaction must be unique for a given Requester in
the following cases:


ARM IHI 0050


• DBIDResp or DBIDRespOrd or CompDBIDResp for all Write transactions, except in WriteNoSnpZero and
WriteUniqueZero.
• DBIDResp or DBIDRespOrd or CompDBIDResp for all Combined Write transactions.
• DBIDResp or DBIDRespOrd or CompDBIDResp for Atomic* transactions.
• DBIDResp or DBIDRespOrd or CompDBIDResp for DVMOp transactions.
• CompData or RespSepData for Read transactions that include CompAck, except in the case when
ReadOnce* and ReadNoSnp do not use the resultant CompAck for deallocation of the request at Home.
• Comp for:
– Dataless transactions that include CompAck.
– CopyBack transactions that complete without a data transfer.

103

Chapter B2. Transactions
B2.4. Transaction identifier fields

The DBID value is applicable in the DataSepResp response to Read requests that include CompAck, and it must


.


be the same as the DBID value in the associated RespSepData response.
A Comp response message sent separate from a DBIDResp or DBIDRespOrd message for a Write or Combined
Write transaction must include the same DBID field value in the Comp and DBIDResp or DBIDRespOrd message
when the two messages originate from the same source.
A Comp response message sent separate from a DBIDResp or DBIDRespOrd message for a Atomic transaction is
permitted, but is not required, to include the same DBID field value in the Comp and DBIDResp or DBIDRespOrd
message.
A Completer is permitted, but not required, to use the same DBID value for two transactions with different
Requesters. A Completer is permitted to reuse a DBID value after it has received all packets required to deallocate
a previous transaction that has used the same value. B2.5 Transaction identifier field flows gives more detailed
rules for the different transaction types.
The DBID value used by a Snoop Completer in response to a Stash snoop that includes a Data Pull must be unique
with respect to:
• The DBID values in other Snoop responses to Stash snoops that use Data Pull.
• The TxnID of any outstanding request from that Snoop Completer.
The Completer is not required to utilize the DBID field, and is permitted to set the DBID to any value in:
• WriteNoSnpZero and WriteUniqueZero transactions.
• Read transactions without CompAck.
• Dataless transactions without CompAck.
• SnpResp response to either:
– Stash snoop that does not include a Data Pull.
– Non-stash snoop.

Note
The advantage of using the DBID assigned by the Completer, instead of the TxnID assigned by the
Requester, is that the Completer can use the DBID to index into its request structure instead of performing a
lookup using TxnID and SrcID to determine which transaction write data or completion acknowledge is
associated with which request.
If a Completer is using the same DBID value for different Requesters, which it must do if its operation
requires more than 1024 DBID responses to be active at the same time, SrcID with DBID must be used to
determine which request should be associated with a write data or response message.

The DBID field is inapplicable and must be zero for the following responses:
• SnpRespData and SnpRespDataPtl when DataPull is 0.
• SnpRespDataFwded.
The DBIDResp response is also used to provide certain ordering guarantees relating to the transaction. See B2.7.5
Transaction ordering

B2.4.4 Return Transaction Identifier, ReturnTxnID

A transaction request from Home to Subordinate also includes a ReturnTxnID field to convey the value of TxnID
in the data response and the DBIDResp response from the Subordinate.
Its value, when applicable, must be either:


ARM IHI 0050


• The TxnID generated by Home, when the ReturnNID is the node ID of the Home.
• The TxnID of the original Requester, when the ReturnNID is the node ID of the original Requester.


104

ReturnTxnID is only applicable in a ReadNoSnp , ReadNoSnpSep , WriteNoSnp , Combined Write, and Atomic*


Invalid or Match:


requests from Home to Subordinate. The field is inapplicable and must be zero in all other requests from Home to
Subordinate.
ReturnTxnID is inapplicable and must be zero in all requests from Requester to Home, and Requester to
Subordinate.
The following are the expected and permitted values for ReturnTxnID in requests from the Home Node to the
Subordinate Node.
In ReadNoSnp and ReadNoSnpSep :
• Expected value is the original Requester TxnID but permitted to be the Home TxnID .
• Used as the TxnID in the CompData and DataSepResp responses.
In Atomic with TagOp
• For AtomicStore , the ReturnTxnID can take any value, and the value is not used in any response.
• For Non-store Atomics, the ReturnTxnID must be the Home TxnID . The value is used as the TxnID in the
CompData response.
In WriteNoSnp with any TagOp value:
• When DoDWT = 0, ReturnTxnID can take any value, and the value is not used in any response.
• When DoDWT = 1, the ReturnTxnID value is expected to be the original Requester TxnID but is permitted
to be the Home TxnID . Used as the TxnID in the DBIDResp response.
In WriteNoSnpDef :


B2.4.5 Forward


• When DoDWT = 0, ReturnTxnID can take any value, and the value is not used in any response.


 Identifier, FwdTxnID


• When DoDWT = 1, the ReturnTxnID value is expected to be the original Requester TxnID but is permitted
to be the Home TxnID . Used as the TxnID in the DBIDResp response.
In Combined Write:
• When DoDWT = 0, ReturnTxnID can take any value, and the value is not used in any response.
• When DoDWT = 1, the ReturnTxnID value is expected to be the original Requester TxnID but is permitted
to be the Home TxnID . Used as the TxnID in the DBIDResp response.

 Transaction

A Snoop request from Home to RN-F also includes a FwdTxnID field to convey the value of TxnID in the Data
response from the Snoopee. Its value must be the TxnID of the original Request.
The FwdTxnID field is only applicable in:
• SnpSharedFwd
• SnpCleanFwd


B2.4.6 Data


• SnpOnceFwd


 DataID, and Critical Chunk Identifier, CCID


• SnpNotSharedDirtyFwd
• SnpUniqueFwd
• SnpPreferUniqueFwd
The FwdTxnID field is inapplicable and must be zero in all other snoops.

 Identifier,

These fields identify the individual data packets within a transaction.
and B2.9.7 Critical Chunk Identifier
See B2.9.4 Data packetization
.


105

B2.4.7 Logical Processor Identifier, LPID

This field is used when a single Requester contains more than one logically separate processing agent. The SrcID
is used with LPID to uniquely identify the LP that generated the request.
The LPID must be set to the correct value for the following transactions:
• For any Non-snoopable Non-cacheable or Device access:
– ReadNoSnp
– WriteNoSnp
– WriteNoSnpDef
• For Exclusive accesses, that can be one of the following transaction types:
– ReadClean


for further details.


– ReadShared
– ReadNotSharedDirty
– ReadPreferUnique
– MakeReadUnique
– CleanUnique
– ReadNoSnp
– WriteNoSnp
See Chapter B6Exclusive accesses
For other transactions, the LPID value is permitted, but not required, to indicate the original LP that caused a
transaction to be issued.


B2.4.8
 Identifier, StashLPID

In requests, when applicable, the same bits in the packet are used for TagGroupID , PGroupID , and StashGroupID .

 Stash Logical Processor

The StashLPID field can be used to specify a particular LP within the Request Node specified by StashNID , when

for the permitted combinations of StashLPIDValid and StashNIDValid.
the corresponding StashLPIDValid bit is 1. See B13.10.11 Stash Logical Processor Identifier, StashLPID .
See B7.5.1 Supporting REQ packet fields

B2.4.9 Stash Node Identifier, StashNID

The StashNID field provides the Request Node that is the target of the Stash transaction when the corresponding
Stash Node Identifier, StashNID
StashNIDValid bit is 1. See B13.10.9
.

B2.4.10 Return Node Identifier, ReturnNID

A transaction request from Home to Subordinate includes a ReturnNID that is used to determine the TgtID for the
following responses from the Subordinate Node:
• Data response
• DBIDResp response
• Persist response
• TagMatch response
Its value must be either the node ID of Home or the node ID of the original Requester.


106

Chapter B2. Transactions
B2.4. Transaction identifier fields

ReturnNID is only applicable in a ReadNoSnp , ReadNoSnpSep , CleanSharedPersistSep , WriteNoSnp , Combined


Invalid:


Write, and Atomic requests from Home to Subordinate. The field is inapplicable and must be zero in all other
requests from Home to Subordinate.
ReturnNID is inapplicable and must be zero in all requests from Requester to Home and Requester to Subordinate.
The following are the expected and permitted values for the ReturnNID in requests from the Home Node to the
Subordinate Node.
In ReadNoSnp , ReadNoSnpSep , and CleanSharedPersistSep :
• Expected value is the original Requester Node ID but is permitted to be the Home Node ID.
• Used as the TgtID in CompData, DataSepResp, and Persist responses.
In Atomic with TagOp
• For AtomicStore , ReturnNID can take any value and the value is not used in any responses.


Match:

• For Non-store Atomics, the ReturnNID must be the Home Node ID. The value is used as the TgtID in
CompData.
In Atomic with TagOp
• ReturnNID must be the Home Node ID.


Match
• The value is used as the TgtID in CompData and TagMatch responses.
In WriteNoSnp with TagOp not :
• When DoDWT = 0, the ReturnNID can take any value, and the value is not used in any responses.
• When DoDWT = 1, the ReturnNID value is expected to be the original Requester Node ID but is permitted to

Match:
be the Home Node ID. Used as the TgtID in the DBIDResp response.
In WriteNoSnp with TagOp
• Irrespective of the value of DoDWT , the ReturnNID value is expected to be the original Requester Node ID
but is permitted to be the Home Node ID.
• When DoDWT = 0, the ReturnNID value is used as the TgtID in the TagMatch response only.
• When DoDWT = 1, the ReturnNID value is used as the TgtID in the DBIDResp and TagMatch responses.
In WriteNoSnpDef :
• When DoDWT = 0, ReturnNID can take any value, and the value is not used in any response.
• When DoDWT = 1, the ReturnNID value is expected to be the original Requester Node ID but is permitted to
be the Home Node ID. Used as the TgtID in the DBIDResp response.
In Non-PCMO Combined Write:
• When DoDWT = 0, ReturnNID can take any value, and the value is not used in any responses.
• When DoDWT = 1, the ReturnNID value is expected to be the original Requester Node ID but is permitted to
be the Home Node ID. Used as the TgtID in the DBIDResp response.
In WriteNoSnpFullClnShPer and WriteNoSnpPtlClnShPer:
• Irrespective of the value of DoDWT , the ReturnNID value is expected to be the original Requester Node ID
but is permitted to be the Home Node ID.
• When DoDWT = 0, the ReturnNID value is used as the TgtID in the Persist response only.
• When DoDWT = 1, the ReturnNID value is used as the TgtID in the DBIDResp and Persist responses.


ARM IHI 0050
107
Issue H

B2.4.11 Home Node Identifier, HomeNID

CompData includes the HomeNID field that is used by the Requester to identify the target of CompAck that the
Requester could need to send in response to CompData. HomeNID is applicable in CompData and DataSepResp
and is inapplicable and must be zero for all other Data messages.

Note


B2.4.12


There is no functional requirement for the HomeNID and DBID fields in the DataSepResp response because


 FwdNID


the values that are provided in the RespSepData response are identical and can always be used. However, it
is required that these values are included to help with debugging and protocol checking.

 Forward Node Identifier,

A Snoop request from Home to RN-F includes a FwdNID that is used to determine the TgtID for the Data
response from the Snoopee. Its value must be the node ID of the original Requester.
The FwdNID field is only applicable in:
• SnpSharedFwd
• SnpCleanFwd
• SnpOnceFwd


B2.4.13


• SnpNotSharedDirtyFwd


 Identifier, PGroupID


• SnpUniqueFwd
• SnpPreferUniqueFwd
The FwdNID field is inapplicable and must be zero in all other snoops, except range-based Translation Lookaside
Buffer Invalidate (TLBI) DVM operations. For range-based TLBI operations, the bits in the field are used for
DVM payload.

 Persistence Group

Combined Write with Persistent CMO
A CleanSharedPersistSep and
(PCMO) request includes a PGroupID to
identify the Persistence Group that the request belongs to. If a Requester has persistent CMO requests from
different functional agents that it would like to identify for performant persistent CMO handling, it can assign a


:


different PGroupID value to each group of Persist requests. Use of this 8-bit field is applicable in
CleanSharedPersistSep and Combined Write with PCMO transactions. It is also applicable in Persist and
CompPersist responses. It is inapplicable and must be zero in all other requests and responses. See B13.10.8
Persistence Group Identifier, PGroupID
• PGroupID must be sent in the CleanSharedPersistSep request and a Combined Write request that includes a
PCMO.
• The PGroupID value returned in the Persist response can be used by a Requester to separately track
completions of Persist responses from each group.
• It is expected that a Requester that does not support multiple persistence groups sets the PGroupID value to 0.
• Typically, a Requester that is making use of PGroupID for passing a barrier does not reuse a PGroupID value
until all the earlier sent CleanSharedPersistSep requests from that group have received Persist responses.
• The Completer is required to reflect back PGroupID in the Persist and CompPersist responses, and the
responses of Combined Write requests that include a PCMO.
• The PGroupID field in the Comp and CompCMO response from both the Home and Subordinate is
inapplicable and must be zero.


108

B2.4.14 Stash Group Identifier, StashGroupID

To identify the Stash Group that the request belongs to, a StashOnceSep request includes a StashGroupID . The
same StashGroupID value from the request is later used by a StashDone response in the transaction flow. If a
Requester has StashOnceSep requests from different functional agents that can be identified for performant stash
handling, a different StashGroupID value to each group of Stash requests can be assigned.
Use of this 8-bit field is applicable in the StashOnceSep request and StashDone response. StashGroupID is
inapplicable and must be zero in all other requests and responses.
• StashGroupID must be sent in the StashOnceSep request.


Stash Group Identifier, StashGroupID .


• The StashGroupID value returned in the StashDone response can be used by a Requester to separately track
completions of Stash transactions from each group.
• It is expected that a Requester that does not support multiple stash groups sets the StashGroupID value to 0.
• The Completer is required to reflect back StashGroupID in the StashDone response.
See B13.10.13

B2.4.15
 Identifier, TagGroupID
 Tag Group

Match is set includesto
To identify the Tag group that the request belongs to, a Write request where TagOp 
 a
. The same TagGroupID value from the request is later used by a TagMatch response in the
TagGroupID
transaction flow to notify the Requester if the TagMatch operation passed or failed.
Match set to , and in a TagMatch response.
Use of this 8-bit field is applicable in Write requests where TagOp is
 is inapplicable and must be zero in all other requests and responses.
TagGroupID
Match set to .
• TagGroupID must be sent in a Write request where TagOp is
IMPLEMENTATION SPECIFIC . Typically, TagGroupID is expected to
• The precise contents of TagGroupID are
contain an Exception Level, TTBR value, and PE identifier.
Tag Group Identifier, TagGroupID .
See B13.10.41

B2.4.16 Cache Line Identifier, CacheLineID

The CacheLineID field is used on the RSP and DAT channels to identify to which cache line a Response or Data
message corresponds.
For both multi-request and single-request transactions, when the MultiReq_Support property is True or
CacheLineID_Accurate, the CacheLineID field, when applicable, must match the relevant bits of the associated


CacheLineID and B2.6
for more information.

request or snoop address. This enables differentiation of multiple cache line responses that share the same
transaction identifier, particularly in multi-request transaction flows.
See B13.10.66
Multi-request


109