Table B2.7 –Continued from previous page

Transaction Location
 Response
 Outcome

Dataless except for
Comp
The transaction is observable to a later transaction
StashOnceSep,
from any agent to the same memory location.
CleanInvalidPoPA , and
CleanInvalidStorage

CleanSharedPersist Comp
 data written earlier to the same memory


CleanInvalidStorage Comp
The data written earlier is now at the furthest point
in the memory hierarchy away from a PE or other
observer to which a write transaction could
propagate, that is, memory.

Combined Write CompCMO


CompCMO (PoPA


CompCMO (Storage CMO and write operations are now at the furthest
CMO)
point in the memory hierarchy away from a PE or
other observer to which a write transaction could
propagate, that is, memory.


 data written earlier to the same memory


Combined Write with
Persist The
 data write in the Combined Write is made


StashOnceSep Comp
 The
 Completer accepts the request and does not

StashDone The transaction is observable to a later transaction
           from any agent to the same memory location.

The Completer accepts the request and does not
     send a RetryAck response.

Combined Write with Persist The data write in the Combined Write is made
PCMO persistent. All earlier writes on the same line are
                                     also made persistent.

CleanSharedPersistSep Persist The data written earlier to the same memory
                                     location is made persistent.

Comp See outcome of Comp for Write transaction within
      this table.

CompCMO (PoPA CMO and write operations are observable to a
CMO) later transaction from any agent to the same
                memory location in any PAS. Additional Cache
                        Maintenance Operations could be required in the
                other Physical Address Spaces to ensure that any
                data written earlier is fully visible to those
                        Physical Address Spaces.

                             CMO, PCMO, and write operations are observable
(non-PoPA and to a later transaction from any agent to the same
           Non-storage CMO) memory location.

CleanInvalidPoPA Comp The transaction is observable to a later transaction
                        from any agent to the same memory location in
                        any PAS. Additional Cache Maintenance
                                 Operations could be required in the other Physical
                        Address Spaces to ensure any data written earlier
                        is fully visible to those Physical Address Spaces.

CleanSharedPersist Comp Any data written earlier to the same memory
                               location is made persistent.
136

Chapter B2. Transactions
B2.7. Ordering

Note
IMPLEMENTATION is
The size of the endpoint address range
 DEFINED . Typically, this is:
• The size of a peripheral device, for a region used for peripherals.
• The size of a cache line, for a region used for memory.
A Cacheable location can be determined by the MemAttr [2] Cacheable bit = 1 in the request. A


(OWO) Write request, if the write is canceled and the Requester sends a

Non-cacheable or Device location can be determined by the MemAttr [2] Cacheable bit = 0 in the request.

In a combinedOrdered Write Observation
WriteDataCancel, the required cache maintenance on the write data is not carried out. The Requester must resend
both the Write request and the CMO:
• If a Write with PCMO had its write canceled:
– The Persist response for the combined request does not indicate that the write data is made persistent.
– The Requester must resend the PCMO either combined with the re-sent Write request or after the re-sent
Write request succeeds.
• If a Write with CMO had its write canceled:
– The Requester must resend the CMO, either combined with the re-sent Write request or after the re-sent


B2.7.3 Completion


Write request succeeds.
A component must only give a Comp or CompDBIDResp response when all observers are guaranteed see the
result of the atomic operation.
A Comp response in a canceled write only implies that the transaction loop is completed and makes no statement
regarding the completion of coherency action initiated by the write. Therefore, the Completer is permitted to send
a Comp as soon as receiving a WriteDataCancel response without dependency on either the processing of the write
request or the completion of any snoops sent due to the write.

 acknowledgment

The relative ordering of transactions issued by a Requester, and Snoop transactions caused by transactions from
different Requesters, is controlled by the use of a completion acknowledge, CompAck, response. This ensures that
a Snoop transaction that is ordered after the transaction from the Requester is guaranteed to be received after the
transaction response.
The sequencing of the completion of a Read transaction and the sending of CompAck is as follows:
1. An RN-F sends a CompAck after receiving Comp, RespSepData, or CompData, or both RespSepData and
DataSepResp.
2. An HN-F, except in the case of ReadNoSnp and ReadOnce* , waits for CompAck before sending a
subsequent snoop to the same address. For CopyBack transactions, WriteData acts as an implicit CompAck
and an HN-F must wait for WriteData before sending a snoop to the same address.
This sequence guarantees that an RN-F receives completion for a transaction and a snoop to the same cache line in


ARM IHI 0050


the same order as they are sent from an HN-F. This ensures transactions to the same cache line are observed in the
correct order.
When an RN-F has a transaction in progress that uses CompAck, except for ReadNoSnp and ReadOnce* , a Snoop
request is guaranteed to not be received to the same address between the point that Comp is received and the point
that CompAck is sent.
For WriteNoSnp , WriteUnique , and their Combined Write variants, that require a CompAck message, a Request
Node sends the CompAck after receiving the Comp, DBIDResp, or CompDBIDResp response.
The use of CompAck for a transaction is determined by the Requester setting the ExpCompAck field in the
original request. The rules for a Request Node setting the ExpCompAck field and generating a CompAck response
are as follows:


137
Issue H

Chapter B2. Transactions
B2.7. Ordering

• An RN-F must include a CompAck response in all Read transactions except ReadNoSnp and ReadOnce* .


.


• An RN-F is permitted, but not required, to include a CompAck response in ReadNoSnp and ReadOnce*
transactions.
• An RN-F must not include a CompAck response in StashOnce* , CMO, Atomic, or Evict transactions.
• An RN-I or RN-D is permitted, but not required, to include a CompAck response in Read transactions.
• An RN-I or RN-D must not include a CompAck response in Dataless or Atomic transactions.
• A Request Node that wants to make use of DMT must include a CompAck response in ordered ReadNoSnp
and ReadOnce* transactions.
• For Write transactions, CompAck can only be used for:
– WriteUnique, WriteNoSnp , and their Combined Write variants, when they require OWO guarantees.
See B2.7.5.3 Streaming Ordered Write transactions
– CopyBack write transactions where Home has provided a Comp response, indicating that the Requester

CopyBack Write.
must not send CopyBackWriteData. When Home provides a Comp response, a CompAck must be sent
by the Requester regardless of the original ExpCompAck value. See B2.3.2.3
For transactions between a Request Node and a Home Node, where the Home Node is the Completer, the Home
Node must support the use of CompAck for all transactions that are required or permitted to use CompAck.
A Subordinate Node is not required to support the use of CompAck.
A Requester, such as an HN-F or HN-I that communicates with an SN-F or SN-I respectively, must not send a
CompAck response.
Table B2.8 shows the Request types that require a CompAck response, and the corresponding Requester types that
are required to provide that response. The following key is used:
Y Yes, required


Table B2.8: Requester CompAck requirement


N No, not required
H Dependent on transaction flow chosen by Home in response to the CopyBack Write request
O Optional
- Not applicable


Request type CompAck required
RN-F RN-D, RN-I

ReadNoSnp O O

ReadOnce* O
 O

ReadClean Y
 -

ReadNotSharedDirty Y -

ReadShared Y -

ReadUnique Y -

ReadPreferUnique Y -

MakeReadUnique Y -


ARM IHI 0050


Continued on next page


138

Table B2.8 –Continued from previous page

Request type CompAck required
RN-F RN-D, RN-I

CleanUnique Y -

MakeUnique Y -

CleanShared N N

CleanSharedPersist* N N

CleanInvalid N N

CleanInvalidPoPA N N

CleanInvalidStorage N N

MakeInvalid N N

WriteBack H
 -

WriteCleanFull H -

WriteUnique O O

WriteUniqueZero N N

Evict N
 -

WriteEvictFull H -

WriteEvictOrEvict H -

WriteNoSnp O O

WriteNoSnpDef N N

WriteNoSnpZero N N

Atomic* N
 N

StashOnce* N N

    requirement is the same as the CompAck requirement for
                 DataSepResp
    Read transaction can be considered to be globally
    the read data received.
    from Home, the relevant request has been ordered
                 location for transactions that are scheduled before
    response to the Requester, the Home must ensure
    to the same address.
    the Read transaction cannot be considered to be
    guarantee that Home has completed snooping of other
    than Invalid, the Read transaction can be considered
In a Combined Write transaction, the CompAck requirement is the same as the CompAck requirement for the type
of Write in the Combined Write transaction.

B2.7.4 Ordering semantics of RespSepData and

When a Requester receives the first DataSepResp, the Read transaction can be considered to be globally observed.
This is because there is no action which can modify the read data received.
When a Requester receives a RespSepData response from Home, the relevant request has been ordered at Home.
The Requester does not receive any snoops to the same location for transactions that are scheduled before the
RespSepData response. Before sending RespSepData response to the Requester, the Home must ensure that no
Snoop transactions are outstanding to that Requester to the same address.
When a Requester receives:
• RespSepData with a Resp field value of Invalid, the Read transaction cannot be considered to be globally
observed. That is, RespSepData_I does not guarantee that Home has completed snooping of other agents in
the system.
• RespSepData with any legal Resp field value other than Invalid, the Read transaction can be considered to be


139

globally observed.


0b10 set to


When the Requester gives a completion acknowledge, CompAck, response, it is required to hazard snoops for any
transaction that is scheduled after the CompAck response. The following rules apply:
• For all transactions, except as described immediately below, the CompAck must be sent after the
RespSepData response is received. It is permitted, but not required, to wait for the DataSepResp response
before the CompAck is given.
• For ReadOnce and ReadNoSnp transactions with an ordering requirement, that is, Order field is
or 0b11 and the ExpCompAck field is 1, it is required that the CompAck is given only after both
DataSepResp and RespSepData responses are received.


B2.7.5 Transaction


Note
It is required that CompAck must not be given when only DataSepResp is received.

 ordering

In addition to using a Comp response to order a sequence of requests from a Requester, this specification also
defines mechanisms for ordering of requests between a Request Node, Home Node pair and an HN-I, SN-I pair.
Between an HN-F, SN-F pair and HN-I, SN-I pair, the order field is used to obtain a Request Accepted


This guarantees the order of multiple transactions, from the same agent, to


acknowledgment.
Requester Order between an RN, HN pair and an HN-I, SN-I pair is supported by the Order field in a request. The
Order field indicates that the transaction requires one of the following forms of ordering:
Request Order
the same address location.
This guarantees the order of multiple transactions, from the same agent, to
Endpoint Order
the same endpoint address range.
 OWOThis guarantees the observation order by other agents in the system, for a
Ordered Write Observation,
sequence of Write transactions from a single agent.
Request Accepted
This guarantees that the Completer sends a positive acknowledgment only

Table B2.9 shows the Order field encodings.
when accepting the Read request.


The following key is used:
- Not applicable.

 B2.9: Order value encodings
Table

Order[1:0] Description
 Permitted
 between Permitted
 for
Multi-request

0b00
No ordering required All Yes

0b01
 to SN-F, and HN-I to SN-I Yes
Request accepted HN-F
 to HN -
Reserved RN

0b10
 to HN
a
Yes
Request Order or OWO RN
 to SN-I Yes
Request Order HN-I
 to SN-F -
Reserved HN-F

Continued on next page

140

Table B2.9 –Continued from previous page

Order[1:0] Description
 Permitted
 between Permitted
 for
Multi-request

0b11
Endpoint Order RN
 to HN, and HN-I to SN-I -
Reserved HN-F
 to SN-F -

a
Request Order when ExpCompAck = 0. OWO when ExpCompAck = 1.


For any multi-request that uses a non-zero value of Order , the hazarding guarantees are the same as though the
multi-request transaction was issued using separate 64-byte cache line-aligned requests.

Note
It is permitted to over-address hazard to assist with logic complexity. A non-exhaustive list of how this could


Flow control with Resource Planes .


be implemented includes hazarding at:
• Twice the overall transaction size, to assist with any address un-alignment compared to the natural
multi-request boundary.
• A granular 64-byte level up to a certain multi-request size and then a full 4-KB range afterwards.
• A full 4-KB range for any multi-request.

A sequence of transactions that rely on the Order field for same agent ordering must use the same REQ channel RP.
For more information on Resource Planes, see B14.2.1.2
B2.7.5.1 Ordering requirements
A Requester that changes the ordering requirements of a transaction to a stronger ordering requirement, is required
to be consistent in changing the ordering requirement of Request Order to Endpoint Order on all its transactions.
The Order field must only be set to a non-0 value for the following transactions:
• ReadNoSnp
• ReadNoSnpSep
• ReadOnce*
• WriteNoSnp
• WriteNoSnpDef
• WriteNoSnp*CMO
• WriteNoSnpZero
• WriteUnique
• WriteUnique*CMO
• WriteUniqueZero
• Atomic*
When a ReadNoSnp or ReadOnce* transaction requires Request Order or Endpoint Order:
• The Requester requires a ReadReceipt to determine when it can send the next ordered request.
• At the Completer a ReadReceipt means the request has reached the next ordering point that maintains
requests in the order they were received:

141

Chapter B2. Transactions
B2.7. Ordering

– Requests that require Request Order maintain order between requests to the same address from the same


Streaming Ordered Write transactions


source.
– Requests that require Endpoint Order maintain order between requests to the same endpoint address
range from the same source.
• A Completer that is capable of sending separate Non-data and Data-only responses can send RespSepData
response instead of ReadReceipt and achieve the same functional behavior.
When a WriteNoSnp , WriteNoSnpDef , WriteNoSnpZero , or a Non-snoopable Atomic transaction requires
Request Order or Endpoint Order:
• The Requester requires a DBIDResp or DBIDRespOrd to determine when sending the next ordered request.
• The Completer sending a DBIDResp or DBIDRespOrd response means that a data buffer is available, and
that the Write request has reached a PoS that maintains requests in the order they were received:
– For requests that require Request Order, the Completer maintains order between requests to the same
address from the same source.
– For requests that require Endpoint Order, the Completer maintains order between requests to the same
endpoint address range from the same source.
When a WriteUnique transaction without ExpCompAck = 1, or a WriteUniqueZero or a Snoopable Atomic
transaction requires Request Order:
• The Requester requires a DBIDResp or DBIDRespOrd to determine when sending the next ordered request.
• The Completer sending a DBIDResp or DBIDRespOrd response means that maintains order between
requests to the same address from the same source.
Additionally, when a Completer sends DBIDRespOrd for a request with a no order or Request Order requirement,
the Completer guarantees to order all subsequent no order or Request Order received requests to the same address
from the same source against this request, where these later received requests are of any transaction type, not
necessarily Write transactions. When the write includes a CMO, the order is guaranteed against both the write and
the CMO.
When a WriteUnique , WriteNoSnp , or one of their Combined Write variants requires OWO:
• CompAck is required. The Request Node has ExpCompAck = 1.
• The Request Node requires a DBIDResp or DBIDRespOrd.
• The Completer is a PoS. A PoS sending DBIDResp or DBIDRespOrd means:
– A data buffer is available.
– The PoS guarantees that the completion of the coherence action on this write does not depend on
completion of the coherence action on a subsequent write that requires OWO.
– The write is not made visible until CompAck is received.
All architectural mechanisms applicable to increasing streaming efficiency and corresponding constraints are
defined in B2.7.5.3
.
When a ReadNoSnp or ReadNoSnpSep has the Order field set 0b01 to , a ReadReceipt response from the
Completer guarantees that the Completer has accepted the request and does not send a RetryAck response.
B2.7.5.1.1 Read Request order example
Figure B2.38 shows the request ordering of three Read requests.


ARM IHI 0050
142
Issue H

RN HN
                      ReadNoSnp-1
                                                                                             Request
                                                                                             accepted
                      ReadReceipt-1
ReadNoSnp-2 is sent
after ReadReceipt-1
is received
                      ReadNoSnp-2
ReadNoSnp-2 waits
for a CreditGrant Request gets
                                                                                             a Retry
                                                                                             response
                      RetryAck-2
                      PCrdGrant
ReadNoSnp-3
continues waiting
for ReadNoSnp-2 to
make progress
                      ReadNoSnp-2
ReadNoSnp-3 is sent
after Read Receipt-2
                      ReadReceipt-2
is received
                      ReadNoSnp-3
                      ReadReceipt-3
                      Figure B2.38: Series of ordered Read requests
Three ordered requests are sent from Request Node to Home Node in Figure B2.38 as follows:
1. The Request Node sends the ReadNoSnp-1 request to the Home Node.
2. The Home Node accepts the request and returns the ReadReceipt-1 response to the Request Node.
3. After the ReadReceipt-1 response is received, the Request Node sends the ReadNoSnp-2 request to
Home Node.
4. The Home Node cannot immediately accept the ReadNoSnp-2 request and returns the RetryAck-2
to the Request Node.
5. The Request Node must now wait for a PCrdGrant to be sent from the Home Node before resending
ReadNoSnp-2 request. The Request Node does not send ReadNoSnp-3 at this point, to order
behind ReadNoSnp-2. This ordering requires that ReadNoSnp-2 must be accepted at the Home Node
ReadNoSnp-3 is sent to the Home Node.
6. After receipt of an appropriate PCrdGrant, the Request Node resends the ReadNoSnp-2 request.
7. The Home Node accepts the request and returns a ReadReceipt-2 response to the Request Node.
3. After the ReadReceipt-1 response is received, the Request Node sends the ReadNoSnp-2 request to the

4. The Home Node cannot immediately accept the ReadNoSnp-2 request and returns the RetryAck-2 response

5. The Request Node must now wait for a PCrdGrant to be sent from the Home Node before resending the
ReadNoSnp-2 request. The Request Node does not send ReadNoSnp-3 at this point, to order ReadNoSnp-3
behind ReadNoSnp-2. This ordering requires that ReadNoSnp-2 must be accepted at the Home Node before


143

Chapter B2. Transactions
B2.7. Ordering

8. After receipt of the ReadReceipt-2 response, the Request Node sends the ReadNoSnp-3 request to the Home


 CopyBack Request order


Node.
9. The Home Node accepts the request and returns the ReadReceipt-3 response to the Request Node.
10. Each of the read transactions is completed with the Requester receiving a completion and data. This is not
shown in Figure B2.38 .

Note
Figure B2.38 shows a single ordered stream of three reads from the Request Node. However, a Request
Node can have multiple streams of reads, so requests must be ordered within a stream. However, ordering
dependency does not exist between streams. For example, when the streams are from different threads
within the Request Node. In this case, the Request Node waits for the ReadReceipt of the previous request
from the same thread only before sending out the next ordered request from that stream.

B2.7.5.2
An RN-F must wait for the CompDBIDResp or Comp response to be received for an outstanding CopyBack
transaction before issuing another request to the same cache line.
• It is permitted for an Atomic transaction with SnoopMe = 1 to be issued before the CompDBIDResp or
Comp response is received for an outstanding CopyBack to the same cache line.


 Streaming Ordered Write transactions


• It is permitted for a CopyBack transaction to be issued before the CompDBIDResp or Comp response is
received for an outstanding Atomic transaction, with SnoopMe = 1, to the same cache line.
B2.7.5.3
The architectural mechanisms applicable to increasing Ordered Write Observation (OWO) Write streaming
 and the corresponding constraints, are applicable to WriteUnique and WriteNoSnp transactions only.
efficiency,
If a Requester requires a sequence of Write transactions to be observed in the same order as they are issued, the
Requester can wait for completion for a write before issuing the next write in the sequence. Such an observation
ordering is typically termed OWO. This specification provides a mechanism termed Streaming Ordered Writes to
more efficiently stream such ordered Write transactions.
The Streaming Ordered Write mechanism relies on the use of the OWO ordering requirement and CompAck.


0 b10to and set ExpCompAck on the Write request.

When utilizing the Streaming Ordered Write solution, the following requirements apply to the Requesters and
HN-F:
• The Requester must set the Order field
• The OWO requirement in a Write request indicates to the HN-F that the completion of coherence action on
this write must not depend on completion of coherence action on a subsequent write.
• The Requester must wait for DBIDResp, DBIDRespOrd, CompDBIDResp, or Comp for a Write transaction
before sending the next Write request.
• The Requester must send a CompAck response after receiving DBIDResp, DBIDRespOrd, CompDBIDResp,


IMPLEMENTATION is


or Comp responses for the corresponding writes and Comp or CompDBIDResp responses for all earlier
related ordered writes. If write data is to be sent, the Requester is permitted, but not required, to combine the
CompAck response with the WriteData response into a NonCopyBackWriteDataCompAck response. When
the Requester uses the combined CompAck and WriteData response for a transaction, a combined response
must be sent for all WriteData transfers in that transaction. The method by which a Requester determines if a
group of ordered writes are related
 SPECIFIC .


ARM IHI 0050
144
Issue H

Chapter B2. Transactions
B2.7. Ordering

Note
 to send CompAck response until all previously related ordered writes have received their Comp
Waiting
responses ensures the operations at their respective HN-F nodes have completed. Any Requester observing
the write associated with the CompAck response also observes all prior, related ordered writes.

• The Requester that receives DBIDResp* and is ready to send CompAck must not wait for Comp to send
CompAck.


 Optimized Streaming Ordered Write transactions

• HN-F must wait for a CompAck response from the Request Node before deallocating a Write transaction and
making the write visible to other observers.
B2.7.5.3.1
The writes in this section refer to WriteUnique or WriteNoSnp only. The Streaming Ordered Writes mechanism
can be further optimized. If a previously sent write is to a different target, the Requester does not need to wait for
the DBIDResp* for the request before sending the next ordered write. However, if the interconnect can remap the
TgtID, the Requester must presume that all Write transactions are targeting the same HN-F and must not use the
optimized version of the Streaming Ordered Writes flow.
An implementation using an optimized or non-optimized Streaming Ordered Writes solution must avoid deadlock
and livelock situations.

Note
A technique for avoiding resource-related deadlock or livelock issues is to limit Streaming Ordered Writes
optimization to one Requester in the system. All other Requesters in the system can use the Streaming
Ordered Writes solution without the optimization.
In a typical system, the optimized Streaming Ordered Writes solution is most beneficial to an RN-I that is a
conduit for PCIe style, non-relaxed order, Snoopable writes. In most systems, one RN-I hosting this type of
PCIe traffic is adequate.
OWO Writes can be used by more than one Requester by making use of WriteDataCancel messages to avoid
resource related deadlocks and livelocks.

Figure B2.39 shows a typical transaction flow in which an RN-I uses Streaming Ordered WriteUnique transactions.
This flow prevents a read acquiring the new value of Write-B before Write-A has completed.

Note
For clarity, the Write-B DBIDResp* and the NonCopyBackWriteData flow is omitted from Figure B2.39 .


ARM IHI 0050
145

RN-F1
RN-F2
HN-F
RN-I
I
I
I

WriteUnique-A
Request B is sent 
after receiving 
DBIDResp-A
SnpCleanInvalid-A
DBIDResp for 
request A
SnpResp_I-A 
NCBWrData-A

WriteUnique-B

SnpCleanInvalid-A
SnpCleanInvalid-B

SnpCleanInvalid-B
SnpResp_I-B

SnpResp_I-A 
SnpResp_I-B 

Comp-B


CompAck for B is 
Comp-A
not sent until the 
Comp for A is 
CompAck-A
received

CompAck-B


NCBWrData = NonCopyBackWriteData

Figure B2.39: Streaming Ordered WriteUnique transactions flow


The Streaming Ordered WriteUnique transaction flow is as follows:
1. RN-I issues WriteUnique-A to the Home.
2. The Home responds with DBIDResp and issues SnpCleanInvalid-A to RN-F1 and RN-F2.
3. RN-I sends the write data associated with WriteUnique-A and issues the next ordered WriteUnique request
to the Home, shown in Figure B2.39 as WriteUnique-B.
4. WriteUnique-A and WriteUnique-B are to different addresses. The Home sends out SnpCleanInvalid-B
snoops to RN-F1 and RN-F2 for WriteUnique-B without waiting for responses for WriteUnique-A
transaction snoops.
5. The Snoop responses for the WriteUnique-B transaction are received by the Home before the Snoop
responses for the WriteUnique-A transaction are received. Home sends Comp to RN-I for the
WriteUnique-B transaction.
6. The Home waits for Snoop responses for the WriteUnique-A transaction to be received. Once received, the
Home can send Comp to RN-I for the WriteUnique-A transaction.
7. The Requester, RN-I, receives Comp-B and waits to receive Comp-A before proceeding with the next
response.

146

8. The RN-I sends a CompAck response for the WriteUnique-A transaction when it is ready to make the write
observable.
9. The RN-I sends a CompAck response for the WriteUnique-B transaction when it is ready to make the write
observable.


147