B2.8.3 Memory Attributes

The Memory Attributes (MemAttr) consist ofEarly Write Acknowledgment(EWA), Device, Cacheable, and
Allocate.
B2.8.3.1 EWA
EWA indicates whether the Write completion response for a transaction:
• Can come from an intermediate point in the interconnect, such as a Home Node.
• Must come from the final endpoint at the target destination.
When EWA is 1, the Write completion response for the transaction can come from an intermediate point or from
the endpoint. A completion that comes from an intermediate point must provide the same guarantees required by a
Comp as described in B2.7.2 Completion response and ordering .
When EWA is 0, the write completion response for the transaction must come from the endpoint.

Note
It is permitted, but not required, for an implementation not to use the EWA attribute. In this instance,
completion must be given from the endpoint.

The requirements for EWA are:
• Can take any value in:
– WriteNoSnpDef.

Note
For a WriteNoSnpDef transaction, it is expected that the response comes from the final target
endpoint, regardless of EWA value.
An early response from an intermediate component can stop the original Requester observing a
valid Defer response from the final endpoint, reducing the effectiveness of the deferrable write
transaction.

– WriteNoSnp.
– ReadNoSnp.
– ReadNoSnpSep.
– Atomic* transactions.
• Must be 1 in any:
– Read transaction that is not a ReadNoSnp or ReadNoSnpSep .
– Dataless transaction.
– Write transaction that is not a WriteNoSnp or WriteNoSnpDef .
• Is inapplicable and must be 0 in any:
– DVMOp.
– PCrdReturn.
– PrefetchTgt.
B2.8.3.2 Device
Device attribute indicates if the memory type is either Device or Normal.


149

Chapter B2. Transactions
B2.8. Address,

B2.8.3.2.1 Device memory type
Device memory type must be used for locations that exhibit side-effects. Use of Device memory type for locations
that do not exhibit side-effects is permitted.
The requirements for a transaction to a Device type memory location are:
• A Read transaction must not read more data than requested.
• Prefetching from a Device memory location is not permitted.
• A read must get its data from the endpoint. A read must not be forwarded data from a write to the same
address location that completed at an intermediate point.
• Combining requests to different locations into one request, or combining different requests to the same
location into one request, is not permitted.


 memory type


• Writes must not be merged.
• Writes to Device memory that obtain completion from an intermediate point must make the write data visible
to the endpoint in a timely manner.
Accesses to Device memory must use the following types, exclusive variants are permitted:
• Read accesses to a Device memory location must use ReadNoSnp .
• Write accesses to a Device memory location must use WriteNoSnpPtl , WriteNoSnpFull , WriteNoSnpZero ,
or WriteNoSnpDef .
• Atomic* transactions are permitted to Device memory locations.
• The PrefetchTgt transaction is not permitted to Device memory locations. The MemAttr field is inapplicable
and must be 0 in the PrefetchTgt transaction.
CMO transactions are not permitted to Device memory.
B2.8.3.2.2 Normal
Normal memory type is appropriate for memory locations that do not exhibit side-effects.
Accesses to Normal memory do not have the same restrictions regarding prefetching or forwarding as Device type
memory:
• A Read transaction that has EWA = 1 can obtain read data from a Write transaction that has sent its
completion from an intermediate point and is to the same address location.
• Writes can be merged.
Any Read, Dataless, Write, PrefetchTgt , or Atomic transaction type can be used to access a Normal memory
location. The transaction type used is determined by the memory operation to be accomplished, and the Snoopable
attributes.
B2.8.3.3 Cacheable
The Cacheable attribute indicates if a transaction must perform a cache lookup:


ARM IHI 0050


• When Cacheable is 1, the transaction must perform a cache lookup.
• When Cacheable is 0, the transaction must access the final destination.
The Cacheable attribute value requirements are:
• Must be 1 for any:
– Read transaction except ReadNoSnp and ReadNoSnpSep .
– Dataless transaction.
– Write transaction, except WriteNoSnpFull , WriteNoSnpPtl , WriteNoSnpZero , and WriteNoSnpDef .
• Must be 0 for any:


150

Chapter B2. Transactions
B2.8. Address,

– Device memory transaction.
– WriteNoSnpDef.
– PrefetchTgt.
• Can take any value for:
– ReadNoSnp or ReadNoSnpSep transaction to a Normal memory location.
– WriteNoSnpFull and WriteNoSnpPtl transactions to a Normal memory location.

Note
In a transaction that can take any Cacheable value, the value is typically determined from the page table
attributes.

B2.8.3.4 Allocate
The Allocate attribute is an allocation hint and indicates the recommended allocation policy for a transaction:
• When Allocate is 1, it is recommended that the transaction is allocated into the cache for performance
reasons. However, the cache is permitted to not allocate the transaction.
• When Allocate is 0, it is recommended that the transaction is not allocated into the cache for performance
reasons. However, the cache is permitted to allocate the transaction.


 of Attr


The Allocate attribute value requirements are:
• Can be 1 for transactions that have Cacheable = 1, except for ReadOnceMakeInvalid .
• Must be 1 for the WriteEvictFull transaction.

Note
A Requester can convert a WriteEvictFull with the Allocate bit not asserted to an Evict transaction.

• Must be 0 for:
– Device memory transactions.
– Normal Non-cacheable memory transactions.
• Is inapplicable and must be 0 in:
– DVMOp.
– PCrdReturn.
– Evict.
– PrefetchTgt.
B2.8.3.5 Propagation
A request from the Home Node to Subordinate Node sent in response to a request to the Home Node must preserve

0 b0 setto to indicate Normal.
the MemAttr bits EWA, Device, Cacheable, and Allocate. The exception to this rule is when the downstream
memory is known to be Normal, where the Device field value can be
In a Combined Write transaction, when the write and CMO transactions are separated, the Write transaction
inherits the MemAttr and SnpAttr values of the original combined request. The separated CMO transaction
SnpAttr and Cacheable bits must be set to the most pervasive to affect all caches at RN-F nodes and caches
downstream.


ARM IHI 0050


For a ReadNoSnp or WriteNoSnp generated within the interconnect due to a Prefetch from Home or an eviction
from the System cache:

151

• MemAttr bits EWA, Cacheable, and Allocate must all be 1.
• Device field value must be 0 to indicate Normal.


B2.8.4 Transaction

• SnpAttr field value must be 0 to indicate Non-snoopable.

 attribute combinations


Ordering.
Table B2.11 lists the legal combinations of MemAttr , SnpAttr , and Order field values and the equivalent ARM
memory type. The Order field is described in B2.7

 combinations of MemAttr, SnpAttr, and Order field values
Table B2.11: Legal

[1:0]
a
MemAttr[3:0] Order
 [0] ARM Memory type
[1] [3] [2] [0] [1]


Device AllocateCacheable EWA SnpAttrLikelyShared

 1 1 Device nRnE
1 0 0 0 0 0
 1 1 Device nRE
0 0 1 0 0
 0/1
a
0 Device RE
0 0 1 0 0
b
Not valid
All other values

 0/1
a
0 Non-cacheable Non-bufferable
c
0 0 0 0 0 0
 0/1
a
0 Non-cacheable Bufferable
0 0 1 0 0
 0/1
a
0 Non-snoopable WriteBack No-allocate
0 1 1 0 0
 0/1
a
0 Non-snoopable WriteBack Allocate
1 1 1 0 0
d
0/1
a
0 Snoopable WriteBack No-allocate
0 1 1 1 0/1
d
0/1
a
0 Snoopable WriteBack Allocate
1 1 1 1 0/1
b
Not valid
All other values

a
Order = 0b10 is permitted in ReadOnce* , WriteUnique , ReadNoSnp , WriteNoSnp , WriteNoSnpDef ,
and Atomic transactions only.
Transaction ordering
.
b
Order = 0b01 is not used for the ordering of transactions. See B2.7.5
c
Non-cacheable Non-bufferable is an AXI memory type, not an ARM memory type.
d
See B2.8.5 Likely Shared.


B2.8.4.1 Memory type
This section specifies the required behavior for each of the memory types shown in Table B2.11 .


152


B2.8.4.1.1 Device nRnE
The required behavior for Device nRnE memory type is:
• The write response must be obtained from the final destination.
• Read data must be obtained from the final destination.

Chapter B2. Transactions
B2.8. Address,

• A read must not fetch more data than is required.
• A read must not be prefetched.
• Writes must not be merged.
• A write must not write to a larger address range than the original transaction.
• All Read and Write transactions from the same source to the same endpoint must remain ordered.
 nRE
B2.8.4.1.2 Device
The required behavior for the Device nRE memory type is the same as for the Device nRnE memory type, except

 RE
that the write response can be obtained from an intermediate point.
B2.8.4.1.3 Device
The required behavior for the Device RE memory type is same as for the Device nRE memory type, except:
• Read and Write transactions from the same source to the same endpoint need not remain ordered.

 Non-cacheable Non-bufferable
• Read and Write transactions from the same source to addresses that overlap must remain ordered.
B2.8.4.1.4 Normal
The required behavior for the Normal Non-cacheable Non-bufferable memory type is:
• The write response must be obtained from the final destination.
• Read data must be obtained from the final destination.


 Non-cacheable Bufferable

• Writes can be merged.
• Read and Write transactions from the same source to addresses that overlap must remain ordered.
B2.8.4.1.5 Normal
The required behavior for the Normal Non-cacheable Bufferable memory type is:
• The write response can be obtained from an intermediate point.
• Write transactions must be made visible at the final destination in a timely manner.

Note
There is no mechanism to determine when a Write transaction is visible at its final destination.

• Read data must be obtained either from:
– The final destination.
– A Write transaction that is progressing to its final destination.
If read data is obtained from a Write transaction:
The data must be obtained from the most recent version of the write.
*
*
The data must not be cached to service a later read.
• Writes can be merged.
• Read and Write transactions from the same source to addresses that overlap must remain ordered.

Note
For a Normal Non-cacheable Bufferable read, data can be obtained from a Write transaction that is still
progressing to its final destination. This is indistinguishable from the Read and Write transactions
propagating to arrive at the final destination at the same time. Read data returned in this manner does not
indicate that the Write transaction is visible at the final destination.


ARM IHI 0050
153

B2.8.4.1.6 Write-Back No-allocate
The required behavior for the Write-Back No-allocate memory type is:
• The Write response can be obtained from an intermediate point.
• Write transactions are not required to be made visible at the final destination.
• Read data can be obtained from an intermediate cached copy.
• Reads can be prefetched.


 Allocate


• Writes can be merged.
• A cache lookup is required for Read and Write transactions.
• Read and Write transactions from the same source to addresses that overlap must remain ordered.
• The No-allocate attribute is an allocation hint and only recommends to the memory system that the
transaction is not allocated because of performance reasons. However, the allocation of the transaction is not
prohibited.
B2.8.4.1.7 Write-Back
The required behavior for the Write-Back Allocate memory type is the same as for Write-Back No-allocate
memory. However, in this case, the allocation hint is a recommendation to the memory system that, for


B2.8.5 Likely

performance reasons, the transaction is allocated.

 Shared

The LikelyShared attribute is a cache allocation hint. When LikelyShared is 1, the requested data is likely to be
shared by other Request Nodes within the system. This acts as a hint to shared system level caches that the
allocation of the cache line is recommended for performance reasons.
There is no required behavior associated with this transaction attribute.
The requirements for LikelyShared are:
• Can be 1 in:
– ReadClean
– ReadNotSharedDirty
– ReadShared
– StashOnceUnique, StashOnceSepUnique
– StashOnceShared, StashOnceSepShared
– WriteUniquePtl
– WriteUniqueFull
– WriteUniqueZero
– WriteUniquePtlStash
– WriteUniqueFullStash
– WriteBackFull
– WriteCleanFull
– WriteEvictFull
– WriteEvictOrEvict
• Must be 0 in any:
– Combined Write transactions.
– Dataless or Atomic transactions.
– Other Read or Write transactions.

154

• Is not applicable and must be 0 in:
– DVMOp


B2.8.6 Snoop


– PCrdReturn
– PrefetchTgt

 attribute

The SnpAttr field indicates if a transaction could require snooping.
See Table B13.19 for SnpAttr field encodings.
Table B2.12 shows the snoop attributes for the different transaction types. The following key is used:


Table B2.12: Snoop attributes for different transaction types


Y Yes, permitted
- No, not permitted
n/a Not applicable


Transaction Non-snoopable
 Snoopable

CleanShared Y Y
              CleanSharedPersist*
CleanInvalid
              CleanInvalidPoPA
              CleanInvalidStorage
MakeInvalid

CleanUnique - Y
MakeUnique
StashOnce

ReadOnce* - Y
ReadClean
           ReadShared
           ReadNotSharedDirty
           ReadUnique
           ReadPreferUnique
           MakeReadUnique

ReadNoSnp Y -
           ReadNoSnpSep
Evict -
 Y

WriteNoSnp Y
 -

WriteNoSnpDef Y
 -

Continued on next page


155

Table B2.12 –Continued from previous page

Transaction Non-snoopable
 Snoopable

WriteBack - Y
           WriteCleanFull
           WriteEvictFull
           WriteEvictOrEvict
WriteBack -


WriteUnique -
 Y

Atomic* Y
 Y
a
a
DVMOp n/a
n/a
b
b
PrefetchTgt n/a
n/a

a
Not applicable, SnpAttr bit is used as a Domain Identifier
in DVM transactions, see B8.4.1 DVM domain.
b
Not applicable, can take any value.


and B2.3.9.4 Home to Subordinate


The SnpAttr field value in a CMO, in an Atomic, and in ReadNoSnp and ReadNoSnpSep from Home to
Subordinate, must be zero, irrespective of the field value in the Request from the original Requester to Home. In
Write and Combined Write transactions from Home to Subordinate, the bit position for the SnpAttr field is used
for the DoDWT field. See B2.3.9.2 Home to Subordinate Write transactions
.
Combined Write and CMO transactions

Note


B2.8.7 Mismatched
 attributes


For transactions that can take more than one value of SnpAttr , the value is typically determined from page
table attributes.

 Memory

Two different accesses are permitted to occur to the same location using mismatched MemAttr or SnpAttr values.
The mismatched MemAttr or SnpAttr values can be expected or unexpected. It is required that the system does not
deadlock in either instance and the transaction always makes forward progress.
To assist with the expected mismatched memory attributes, an interconnect:
• Must ensure a Clean line, either UC or SC, in a fully coherent cache is:
– Not made visible to a Requester using a transaction with SnpAttr = 0 to access that location, if that
location has been updated by another transaction with SnpAttr = 0 after the cache line was allocated into
the fully coherent cache.
– Not written to main memory.
– Not used to overwrite a Dirty copy in a downstream cache.
• Is permitted, but not required, to make a Dirty copy of a cache line that was written by a Requester using a
transaction with SnpAttr = 0 visible to a fully coherent Requester.
Visibility of the Dirty line must not be removed from the Requester using a transaction with SnpAttr = 0 to
access that location.
• Is permitted, but not required, to make a Dirty line, either UD or SD, in a fully coherent cache visible to
another Requester using a transaction with SnpAttr = 0 to access that location.


156

Chapter B2. Transactions
B2.8. Address,


 Reasons for mismatched attributes


Once a Dirty line in a fully coherent cache is made visible to a Requester using a transaction with SnpAttr =
0 request to access that location, the cache line must not be removed from the visibility of that Requester.

Note
There are multiple implementation options that could be used to ensure that this removal of visibility does
not take place. These include, but are not limited to:
• Writing back the dirty copy of the line to main memory.
• Keeping a copy of the line in the system cache, to be observed by requests that have SnpAttr = 0.
• Snooping fully coherent caches to complete requests that have SnpAttr = 0.

• Must not terminate a CMO on hitting a Unique copy of a line. The continuation of the CMO is required
because the Unique copy could be stale and other dirty copies of the same location exist elsewhere in the
cache hierarchy of the system.
B2.8.7.1
Mismatched attributes could happen for various reasons:
• B2.8.7.1.1 Upgrading of Non-shareable Cacheable accesses
• B2.8.7.1.2 Software protocol errors
B2.8.7.1.1 Upgrading of Non-shareable Cacheable accesses
When an RN-F has the Nonshareable_Cache_Maint property set to True, it must upgrade all accesses where
MemAttr.Cacheable is set to 1 by setting SnpAttr to 1. This modification may require an update to the request
Opcode. For example:
• ReadNoSnp must be updated to an Allocating Read.
• WriteNoSnp must become either a WriteUnique or a CopyBack, depending on the initial RN-F cache state.
With the upgrade based on MemAttr .Cacheable:


Realm Management Extension


• An RN-F must set SnpAttr to 1 when MemAttr .Cacheable is 1.
• An RN-F is permitted to allocate the CompData response for a read.
• All snoops received to those locations must act upon the allocated line.
• A snoopable CMO issued by any Requester in the system subsequently operates on copies that are cached by
a fully coherent Requester or interconnect. This is required to support features such as the Realm
Management Extensions, see Chapter B10
.

Nonshareable_Cache_Maint
When an RN-F has the Nonshareable_Cache_Maint property set to False, it can continue to issue transactions with
MemAttr.Cacheable set to 1 without modifying SnpAttr . See B16.1.17
for more
details.
An RN-I may access any locations with MemAttr .Cacheable set to 1 without modifying SnpAttr . This approach is
recommended for high-bandwidth, IO coherent Requesters to avoid snoop filter lookups.


 Software protocol errors


When an RN-I has been performing stores to the location using WriteNoSnp , an upgraded version of that line in an
RN-F or interconnect may become stale.
The interconnect must ensure that outdated copies of the cache lines are not visible to agents that must not observe
them. The interconnect must also ensure that most recent copies remain visible to agents that must observe them.
B2.8.7.1.2
Memory accesses from different agents made with mismatched snoopability or cacheability attributes that are not
expected can be considered as software protocol errors. A software protocol error can cause loss of coherency and
Software-based error.
result in corruption of data values. See B9.4.1


ARM IHI 0050
157
Issue H

Chapter B2. Transactions
B2.8. Address,

A software protocol error for an access in one 4KB memory region must not cause data corruption in a different
4KB memory region.
For locations held in Normal memory, the use of appropriate software cache maintenance can be used to return
memory locations to a defined state.


B2.8.8 CopyAtHome attribute


The use of mismatched memory attributes can result in an RN-F observing a Snoop transaction to the same
address where the RN-F would use, or previously have used, Non-snoopable transactions to access. If an RN-F
receives a Snoop to a location that is believed to be Non-snoopable, the RN-F must not respond with data and
instead send SnpResp_I. When mismatched attributes are used, there is no defined relationship between the Snoop
transaction and the transaction that the RN-F has issued.


CopyAtHome, CAH , is a cache line attribute that can be used by Home to optimize away redundant data transfers.
It is useful in topologies where system caches are neither fully-inclusive or fully-exclusive, but which adapt their
inclusion policy depending on the behavior of the system.
In CompData and DataSepResp response to the Requester, the CAH value indicates if the Home keeps a copy of
the line. The CAH value is cached with the line at the Requester. If the line is updated locally, the cached CAH


 CAH usage at Home


attribute must be reset.
When the Requester performs a CopyBack Write or Combined CopyBack Write for the line, the CAH value is sent
along with the request. The Home can use the CAH value in the request to determine if it should check for a local
copy of the line. If Home still retains a copy of the line, the CopyBack Write transaction is requested to complete
without a CopyBackWriteData transfer.
B2.8.8.1
In CompData or DataSepResp responses from Home, the CAH attribute is set to:
If the Home indicates a copy of the line is being kept. If the Home has provided a Requester with a
1
Unique copy of the line, the copy at the Home is a hidden copy and is not observable to any agents in the
system. If the Hidden copy is Clean, Home is permitted to remove the copy of the cache line at any time,
except for during the window where a Comp has been issued and the associated CompAck is still
outstanding. Home is not permitted to remove the hidden copy of the line if the line is Dirty and a Clean
copy has been provided to the Requester.
If the Home intends to not keep a copy of the line nor supports the optimized CopyBack Write flow.
0
When the Home receives a later CopyBack Write request, it can inspect the CAH attribute to establish the
transaction flow variation for use to complete the transaction. Table B2.13 shows the CAH attribute usage at Home
for CopyBack Write transactions.


ARM IHI 0050
158

 for CopyBack Write transactions
Table B2.13: CAH usage at Home

Request CopyBack Write transaction Description
CAH value

1
WriteBack or WriteCleanFull The Home is permitted to do one of the following:
• Respond with CompDBIDResp to request the write data for the
transaction.
• Check if Home still has a copy of the line:
If Home has a copy The Home is expected, but
of the line
not required, to respond with
Comp to request that the
transaction is completed
without a data transfer. If the
Home does not send Comp,


WriteEvictOrEvict or


it must send
CompDBIDResp, to request
the write data for the
transaction.
If Home does not The Home must respond
have a copy of the with CompDBIDResp to
line
request the write data for the
transaction.

The Home is permitted to do one of the following:
WriteEvictFull
• Respond with CompDBIDResp to request the write data for the
transaction.
• Respond with Comp to request that the transaction is completed
without a data transfer.
• Check if Home still has a copy of the line:
If Home has a copy The Home is expected, but
of the line
not required, to respond with
Comp to request that the
transaction is completed
without a data transfer. If the
Home does not send Comp,

WriteBack, WriteCleanFull , or The Home must respond with CompDBIDResp to request the write
            WriteEvictFull for the transaction.
0 or Not WriteBack, WriteCleanFull , or


it must send
CompDBIDResp, to request
the write data for the
transaction.
If Home does not The Home must respond
have a copy of the with CompDBIDResp to
line
request the write data for the
transaction.

The Home must respond with CompDBIDResp to request the write data
checked

Continued on next page


159

Chapter B2. Transactions
B2.8. Address,

Table B2.13 –Continued from previous page

Request CopyBack Write transaction Description
CAH value

WriteEvictOrEvict The
 Home is permitted to do one of the following:
• Respond with CompDBIDResp to request the write data for the
transaction.
• Respond with Comp to request that the transaction is completed
without a data transfer.


If Home issues a Comp instead of CompDBIDResp, a following CompAck response must be observed from the
Miscellaneous response
Requester to complete the CopyBack Write transaction. See B4.5.4
for details on how
Home can interpret the possible CompAck responses.
 at Request Node
B2.8.8.2 CAH usage
The Requester or Snoopee handles the CAH attribute in the following way:
• If the CAH attribute has a value of 1 in a CompData or DataSepResp response, a Requester is permitted, but
not required, to cache a value of 1 for CAH .
• If the CAH attribute has a value of 0 in a CompData or DataSepResp response, a Requester must not cache a
value of 1 for CAH .
• A Requester is not required to cache an incoming CAH value. If the CAH value is not cached, the value must
be assumed to be 0.
• When the line or MTE tags are updated, a cache must clear the CAH attribute to 0.
– The CAH attribute can be cleared to 0 in a cache at any point.

Note
However, there is a loss of the ability to reduce the write data bandwidth for CopyBack Write
transactions if the cached CAH attribute is cleared unnecessarily.

– A Requester is not required to clear the CAH attribute to 0 when a WriteCleanFull request is sent.


ARM IHI 0050


• When a Requester has a cache line with a CAH value of 0, a CopyBack transaction must not be sent with the
CAH attribute in the request set to 1.
• When a Requester has a cache line with a CAH value of 1, it is expected, but not required, to send a
CopyBack transaction with the CAH attribute as 1.
– Once a CopyBack request has been sent with the CAH attribute set to 1, the Requester must not further
modify the cache line until the transaction completes.
– Once a WriteCleanFull request has been sent from a UD state with the CAH attribute set to 1, the
Requester must ensure that any later updates to the line are not lost if the Home completes the
transaction without requesting a data transfer.
• When supplying CompData in response to a forwarding snoop, a Snoopee is expected, but not required, to
forward the CAH value to the Requester. If the Snoopee does not forward the CAH value, the value must be
zero in the CompData response.
• When supplying SnpRespData or SnpRespDataFwded to Home in response to a snoop, a Snoopee is
expected, but not required, to send the CAH value. If the Snoopee does not send the CAH value in the data
response, it must be zero.


160

For CopyBack Write transactions, the Resp field value in a CompAck response is applicable and must indicate the
state of the cache at the point the CompAck response is sent. If a snoop request is received while the CopyBack
Write is outstanding, the cache line state can differ from the cache line state when the original transaction was sent.
See B4.7.3 Write request transactionsfor more information.
The cache line state information in the CompAck response must be used by the Home to determine whether any
hidden copy of the line the Home has can be exposed. See Table B2.14 Home can take for each CompAck
response.

Table B2.14: Permitted CompAck responses for CopyBack Write transactions

CompAck_SD_PD 0b111 SD Expose. Responsibility for
                                  This is expected, but not required. updating memory is
                                                               passed to the Home

CompAck_UD_PD 0b110 UD Expose, unless a Unique copy exists Responsibility for
                                   a
elsewhere . updating memory is
                          This is expected, but not required. passed to the Home

CompAck_SC 0b001 SC Expose.
                               This is expected, but not required.

CompAck_UC 0b010 UC Expose, unless a Unique copy exists
                                a
elsewhere .
                       This is expected, but not required.

CompAck_I 0b000 Imprecise and must be Must not yet be exposed Indicates a
                  ignored CopyBack request
                                                                                has been canceled

Response Resp [2:0] Cache line state when the Action when a hidden copy of theNotes
                       response was sent cache line exists at Home
a
A Unique copy can still exist at the Requester when the CopyBack Write transaction was a WriteCleanFull .


If Home has kept a hidden copy of a cache line and later determines that no other copies of the line exist:
• If the hidden copy is Clean, the Home is expected, but not required, to expose that copy.
• If the hidden copy is Dirty, the Home is required to expose that copy.


161