Number_Bytes) - 1.
For Write transactions to Device locations, BE bits must only be 1 for the bytes that are
accessed. See B2.9.3Byte Enables.

B2.9.3 Byte Enables

Byte Enables (BE) are used alongside Write transactions and Snoop responses with Data .
In the following section, unless explicitly stated otherwise, a reference to a Write transaction includes both the
individual Write transaction and the corresponding Combined Write transaction.


 transactions


In WriteData and Snoop responses, a data BE value of 0 must set the associated data byte value to 0.
In CompData and DataSepResp messages, the BE bits are inapplicable and can take any value.
B2.9.3.1 Write
For all Write transactions, BE bits that are not within the data window, specified by Addr and Size , must be 0.
When BE is 1 in Write transactions, this indicates that the associated data byte is valid and must be updated in
memory or cache.
When BE is 0, this indicates that the associated data byte is not valid and must not be updated in memory or cache.
A Requester must set all BE values to 0 in CopyBackWriteData_I and WriteDataCancel packets.
During data transfers in the following write transactions:
• All BE bits must be 1, except when write data is a CopyBackWriteData_I or WriteDataCancel packet:
– WriteNoSnpFull
– WriteNoSnpDef
– WriteBackFull
– WriteCleanFull
– WriteEvictFull


 transactions


– WriteUniqueFull
– WriteUniqueFullStash
• Any combination of BE bits is permitted, including all ones and all zeros:
– WriteBackPtl
– WriteUniquePtl
– WriteUniquePtlStash
For a WriteNoSnpPtl transaction, the following rules apply:
• For a transaction to Normal memory, any combination of BE bits can be 1 during the data transfers. This
includes all ones and all zeros.
• For a transaction to Device memory, BE bits must only be 1 for bytes at or above the address specified in the
transaction. Any combination of BE bits can be 1 that meets this requirement.
This includes all ones and all zeros.
B2.9.3.2 Atomic
For Atomic transactions, all BE bits within the data window must be 1.
For Atomic transactions, BE bits that are not within the data window, as specified below by Addr and Size , must

[Addr is
be 0:
• If Addr is aligned to Size , the Data window :(Addr+Size-1)].

163

• If Addr is not aligned to Size , the Data window [(Addr is -Size/2):(Addr+Size/2-1)].
B2.9.3.3 Snoop transactions
For Snoop responses with data that use the SnpRespData or SnpRespDataFwded opcode, all BE bits must be 1.
For Snoop responses with data that use the SnpRespDataPtl opcode, any combination of BE bits can be 1


B2.9.4

alongside the data transfers. This includes all ones and all zeros.

 Data packetization

For each transaction that involves data, the data bytes can be transferred in multiple packets.
The number of packets required is determined by:
• Transaction Size

Limited B2.9.5
• Data_Width
Use of Limited Data Elision can reduce the number of packets that need to be transported. See
Data Elision.
The maximum number of bytes transferred in each packet is determined by:
• Data_Width
The CHI protocol supports the following data bus widths:
• 128-bit


(DataID) and Critical Chunk Identifier(CCID) fields are used to identify data packets within a

• 256-bit
• 512-bit
The Data Identifier
transaction.
A transaction size of up to 16-byte is always contained in a single packet. The DataID can be calculated for each


0b0 with

packet based on the data bus width:
• 128-bit: bits [5:4] of the effective memory address of any byte in the packet
• 256-bit: bit [5] of the effective memory address of any byte in the packet, concatenated
0b00
• 512-bit: always
For different data bus widths, Table B2.16 shows the relationship between the DataID field and the bytes that are


 B2.16: DataID and the bytes within a packet for different data widths

contained within the packet.

Table


512-bit

0b00 Data[127:0] Data [255:0] Data [511:0]

0b01 Data[255:128] Reserved Reserved

0b10 Data[383:256] Data [511:256] Reserved

all bytes are located at their natural byte positions. This is true even if fewer data
width of the data bus.
        packets used for transactions to Device memory is independent of the address of the
number of data packets required is determined only by the Size field and the data bus

        Data Width
DataID
              128-bit 256-bit 512-bit
Within a data packet, all bytes are located at their natural byte positions. This is true even if fewer data bytes are


0b11 Data[511:384] Reserved Reserved


transferred than the width of the data bus.
The number of data packets used for transactions to Device memory is independent of the address of the
transaction. The number of data packets required is determined only by the Size field and the data bus width.


164

When a DAT message is split into multiple packets:
• The fields that must be consistent are:


• The fields that are expected to be consistent, but can vary, are:


– TgtID
– SrcID
– TxnID
– HomeNID
– PBHA
– Opcode
– Resp
– FwdState
– DataPull
– DataSource
– DBID, when the field is applicable, or inapplicable with a fixed value
– CCID
– TagOp
– CAH
– MECID
– MismatchedMECID
– CacheLineID


– QoS
– RespErr


• The fields that are expected to vary are:


– DBID, when the field is inapplicable and can take any value
– TraceTag
– CBusy


– Data
– DataID
– Tag
– RSVDC
– BE
– DataCheck
– Poison
– NumDat
– Replicate


165

B2.9.5 Limited Data Elision

Limited Data Elision enables an optional reduction in the number of data packets transferred on the DAT channel
when either:
• Some or all of the Data field values are 0
• Subsequent data packets contain replicated Data field values
Each data packet transferred has an indication of number of data packets elided from the data message.
The use of Limited Data Elision does not affect the transaction structure.


0b1, or zero, =


B2.9.5.1 Approach
The NumDat field is used in a DAT packet to indicate how many of the sequentially numbered DAT packets are
elided. For any elided packet, the Replicate field is used to indicate its field values.
If a packet is elided, the Data field can either take the same value as the sent packet, Replicate
Replicate = 0b0. See Figure B2.40 , Figure B2.41 , and Figure B2.42 for examples of how messages could be
communicated using Limited Data Elision.
The maximum number of packets that can be elided is one less than the maximum required to transport a full
cache line of data. The number of packets that can be elided could be less depending on the request data size.
The possible values for NumDat and Replicate for different data bus widths and requested data sizes is shown in


Table B2.17: Possible NumDat and Replicate values

Table B2.17 .


Data Width Request size NumDat [1:0] Replicate

0b00 0b0
a
512 Any

0b00 0b0
a
256 512
0b01 0b0
or 0b1
a
<=256
0b00 0b0

0b00 0b0
a
128 512
0b01 0b0
or 0b1
0b10 0b0
or 0b1
0b11 0b0
or 0b1
a
256
0b00 0b0
0b01 0b0
or 0b1


a

<=128
0b00 0b0
a

Inapplicable and must be zero.


When the transaction size is less than 64B:
0b00 and 0b10 are permitted to have a non-zero NumDat value.
• Packets with DataID
• Packets with DataID 0b01 and 0b11 must have NumDat = 0b00.
The issuing of elided data from an interface can be controlled using BROADCASTLIMELISION the
signal.


166

B2.9.5.2 Examples
Figure B2.40 details a number of example DAT channel messages at the packet level before and after the inclusion
of Limited Data Elision for a 128 bit data bus.

Note
Examples where it is not possible to elide any packets from a data message are also included in Figure
B2.40.

Original
With Limited Data Elision

Packet 1 Packet 0
Packet 3 Packet 2 Packet 1 Packet 0
Packet 3 Packet 2
DataID=11 DataID=10 DataID=01 DataID=00
DataID=11 DataID=10 DataID=01 DataID=00

0
0
0
0
Not sent
0
Not sent Not sent NumDat=3
Replicate=0 or 1

A
A
A
A
Not sent
A
Not sent Not sent NumDat=3
Replicate=1

0
0
0
A
Not sent
A
Not sent Not sent NumDat=3
Replicate=0
A
0
A
0
0
Not sent NumDat=3 Not sent Not sent
Replicate=0

C
C
B
A
Not sent
C
B
A
a
NumDat=1 NumDat=0 NumDat=0
a
Replicate=1 Replicate=0 Replicate=0
A
A
A
0
0
Replicate=0
NumDat=2
A
NumDat=0 Not sent Not sent
a
Replicate=0

0
A
A
Not sent NumDat=1
Replicate=0

A
0
A
0
a
NumDat=0 NumDat=0
a
Replicate=0 Replicate=0
A
0
A
Not sent NumDat=1
Replicate=0
A
0
A
0
NumDat=0 NumDat=0
a
a
Replicate=0 Replicate=0
a 
Inapplicable and must be zero.

Figure B2.40: 128-bit Data bus width examples


Figure B2.41 details a number of example DAT channel messages at the packet level before and after the inclusion
of Limited Data Elision for a 256 bit data bus.


167

Original
With Limited Data Elision


Packet 1 Packet 0
Packet 1 Packet 0
DataID=10 DataID=00
DataID=10 DataID=00
0
0
0
Not sent NumDat=1
Replicate=0 or 1
0
0
0
NumDat=1 Not sent
Replicate=0 or 1
A
A
A
Not sent NumDat=1
Replicate=1
A
A
A
NumDat=1 Not sent
Replicate=1
A
A
0
NumDat=1 Not sent
Replicate=0
A
0
A
Not sent NumDat=1
Replicate=0

Figure B2.41: 256-bit Data bus width examples


B2.9.5.3 Applicability and restrictions
There are various circumstances to be aware of when using Limited Data Elision, outlined in this section:
• B2.9.5.3.1 MTE
• B2.9.5.3.2 BE
• B2.9.5.3.3 NumDat and Replicate values for CopyBackWriteData_I, WriteDataCancel, or NDERR
B2.9.5.3.1 MTE
When using MTE, a DAT packet can be elided when it has the same TagOp , TU , and Tag values as the packet
being sent.
B2.9.5.3.2 BE
To support Limited Data Elision, the packet being sent must have BE bits as all ones or all zeros.
B2.9.5.3.3 NumDat and Replicate values for CopyBackWriteData_I, WriteDataCancel, or NDERR
When Limited Data Elision is used to elide packets from CopyBackWriteData_I or WriteDataCancel messages, or
data messages with RespErr = NDERR, the maximum number of packets must always be elided for that message.
When Limited Data Elision is used to elide packets from CopyBackWriteData_I and WriteDataCancel messages,
Replicate must be zero.
Figure B2.42 details some CopyBackWriteData_I, WriteDataCancel and RespErr = NDERR messages, before and
after the inclusion of Limited Data Elision for a 128-bit data bus.


168

Original
With Limited Data Elision

Packet 3 Packet 2 Packet 1 Packet 0
Packet 3
DataID=10
Packet 2 Packet 1 Packet 0
DataID=01 DataID=00
DataID=01 DataID=00
DataID=11 DataID=10
DataID=11
CopyBackWriteData_I
CopyBackWriteData_I CopyBackWriteData_I CopyBackWriteData_I CopyBackWriteData_I
Not sent
BE=0x0000
Not sent
Not sent
BE=0x0000
BE=0x0000
BE=0x0000
BE=0x0000
NumDat=3
Replicate=0
WriteDataCancel
WriteDataCancel WriteDataCancel WriteDataCancel WriteDataCancel
Not sent
BE=0x0000
BE=0x0000
BE=0x0000
BE=0x0000
BE=0x0000
Not sent
Not sent
NumDat=3
Replicate=0
RespErr = NDERR
Not sent
RespErr = NDERR RespErr = NDERR RespErr = NDERR RespErr = NDERR Not sent
Not sent NumDat=3
Replicate=0

Figure B2.42: CopyBackWriteData_I, WriteDataCancel, or NDERR Data bus width example


B2.9.6 Size, Address, and Data alignment in Atomic transactions

This section describes the data size and alignment requirements for Atomic transactions. It contains the following
sections:
• B2.9.6.1 Size
• B2.9.6.2 Address and Data alignment
• B2.9.6.3 Endianness
B2.9.6.1 Size
The Size field of the packet specifies the total data size of the Atomic transaction.
For the AtomicCompare transaction, the data size is the sum of the Compare and Swap data values.
Table B2.18 shows the permitted data sizes, and the relationship between inbound and outbound valid data size for
each Atomic transaction type. The size of the data value returned in response to an AtomicCompare transaction is
half the number of bytes specified in the Size field in the associated Request packet.

Table B2.18: Atomic transaction outbound and inbound data sizes

Atomic transaction Outbound (bytes) Inbound

AtomicStore 1, 2, 4, or 8 -

AtomicLoad 1, 2, 4, or 8 Same
 as outbound

AtomicSwap 1, 2, 4, or 8 Same
 as outbound

AtomicCompare 2, 4, 8, 16, or 32 Half size of outbound


B2.9.6.2 Address and Data alignment
In the AtomicStore , AtomicLoad , and AtomicSwap transactions:
• The byte address is aligned to the outbound data size.
• The position of data bytes in the NonCopyBackWriteData or any CompData packet matches the endianness
of the operation, as specified in the Endian field of the request.
• The big-endian data is byte invariant.


169

The write data associated with an AtomicCompare transaction is provided in the same way as a transaction that is
aligned to the outbound data size.
In the AtomicCompare transaction:
• The byte address must be aligned in the Data packet to the inbound data size, which is equivalent to half the
outbound data size.
The two data values in an AtomicCompare transaction are placed in the data field in the following manner:
• The Compare and Swap data values are concatenated and the resulting data payload is aligned in the Data
packet to the outbound data size.
• The Compare data is always at the addressed byte location.
• The Swap data is always in the remaining half of the valid data.
For any given Compare data address, the Swap data address can be determined by inverting bit[n] in the Compare
data address where:
n = log2(Compare data size in bytes)
B2.9.6.2.1 Alignment example
Figure B2.43 shows the examples of data placement with different addresses and different Data sizes.

Comp and Data 
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
value size
Example 1: Addr = 0x2
S C
1 byte each
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
Example 2: Addr = 0x5
C S

7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
Example 3: Addr = 0x2
C C S S

7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
2 bytes each
Example 4: Addr = 0x4 S S C C

Only 8 bytes of the 16-byte data packet are shown.

Figure B2.43: Data value packing for AtomicCompare transaction


0x2 and Swap data is

In Figure B2.43 , Example 1 shows the addressed byte location 0x2 isand the total size of data is 2 bytes. In this
case, the Compare and Swap data must be placed in an address location aligned to a 2-byte boundary that includes
the addressed location, that is, addresses 0x2 to 0x3. Compare data is placed in location
placed in location0x3.

Note
The address of the Swap data can be determined by inverting bit[0] of the Compare data address. Bit[0] is
inverted because the size of the Compare data and the size of the Swap data is 1 byte.


0x2 and Swap data is

In Figure B2.43 , Example 3 shows the addressed location 0x2 is and the total size of data is 4 bytes. In this case,
the Compare and Swap data must be placed in an address location aligned to a 4-byte boundary that includes the
addressed location, that is, addresses 0x0 to 0x3. Compare data is placed in location
placed in location0x0.


170

Note
The address of the Swap data can be determined by inverting bit[1] of the Compare data address. Bit[1] is
inverted because the size of the Compare data and the size of the Swap data is 2 bytes.

B2.9.6.3 Endianness


.


The data on which an atomic operation executes can be in either little-endian or big-endian format. For arithmetic
operations, such as ADD, MAX, and MIN, the component performing the operation needs to know the format of
the data.
The endian format of the data is defined by the Endian bit in the Atomic transaction Request packet. See
B13.10.30 Endian

B2.9.7
 Identifier
 Critical Chunk

The CCID field is used to identify the data bytes that are the most critical in the transaction request.
The CCID field must match the value of Addr [5:4] of the original request. Transactions which contain multiple
data packets must use the same CCID value for all data packets.
When read data or write data is reordered by the interconnect, the CCID field permits quick identification of the
most critical bytes within a transaction by comparing the CCID value with the DataID value. When the two values
match, the data bytes being transferred are the critical bytes.


B2.9.8
 First Wrap order


The bits to match is dependent on the data bus width:
• For a data bus width of 128 bits, the CCID and DataID bits must match for the critical chunk.
• For a data bus width of 256 bits only the most significant CCID and DataID bits must match for the critical
chunk.

 Critical Chunk

The Sender of Data is permitted, but not required, to send individual Data packets of a transaction in critical chunk
first wrap order.
The interface property, CCF_Wrap_Order defines the capabilities of a Sender, and the guarantees provided by the
Receiver:
• CCF_Wrap_Order at the Sender:
True The Sender signals the Data packets can be sent in critical chunk first wrap order.
False The Sender signals the Data packets cannot be sent in critical chunk first wrap order.
• CCF_Wrap_Order at the interconnect:
True The interconnect signals the Data packets are guaranteed to maintain the order that transactions are
received.
False The interconnect signals the Data packets are not guaranteed to maintain the order that transactions
are received.
• CCF_Wrap_Order at the Receiver that is not an interconnect:
True The Receiver requires the Data packets to be received in critical chunk first wrap order.
False The Receiver does not require the Data packets to be received in critical chunk first wrap order.
If some components in the system do not support sending Data packets in critical chunk first wrap order, the
receiver of Data must not rely on Data being received in critical chunk first wrap order.


171

Note
At design time, the CCF_Wrap_Order parameter can help a component to identify if Data packets need to be
sent in critical chunk first wrap order. For example, if the component is aware to be connected to an
out-of-order interconnect, its Data packet path could be simplified by not returning the Data packets in
critical chunk first wrap order.
If the interconnect has the CCF_Wrap_Order property set to True, a component interfacing to that
interconnect can send Data packets in critical chunk first wrap order, if capable. The Receiver can
subsequently make use of possible latency optimization, due to receiving the critical chunk first.

B2.9.9 Data Beat ordering

The reordering of data packets within a transaction is permitted when passing across an interconnect. However, the
original source of data packets is permitted, but not required, to provide the packets in a critical chunk first, wrap
order. See B2.9.8Critical Chunk First Wrap order .

Note
Critical chunk first wrap order ensures that interfacing to protocols that do not support data reordering, such
as AXI, can be done in the most efficient manner when an ordered interconnect is used.

Wrap order is defined as follows:
Start_Address = Addr
Size
Number_Bytes = 2
INT(x) = Rounded down integer value of x
Aligned_Address = (INT(Start_Address / Number_Bytes)) xNumber_Bytes
Lower_Wrap_Boundary = Aligned_Address
Upper_Wrap_Boundary = Aligned_Address + Number_Bytes - 1
To maintain wrap order, the order must be:
1. The first data packet must correspond to the data bytes specified by the Start_Address of the transaction.
2. Subsequent packets must correspond to incrementing byte addresses up to the Upper_Wrap_Boundary.
3. Subsequent packets must correspond to the Lower_Wrap_Boundary.
4. Subsequent packets must correspond to incrementing byte addresses up to the Start_Address.

Note
Some of the steps to maintain wrap order could overlap and not be required if the required bytes are
included in a previous step.

B2.9.10 Data transfer examples

This section gives a number of examples of the data transfer requirements.
In most of the examples, the size of the transaction is 64 bytes and the data bus width is 128 bits. This requires 4
data packets for each transaction.
In the following examples, the accompanying text highlights some interesting aspects. The examples are not
intended to describe all aspects.


172

Normal Memory Read transaction
Size = 0b110 (64-bytes)


Data size boundary
Data size boundary


Addr = 0x0040


0x8F 0x80
 0x7F
0x70 0x6F 0x60
 0x5F
0x50 0x4F 0x40
 0x3F
0x30 0x2F 0x20


Packet 3 Packet 2 Packet 1
Packet 0


DataID = 0x3 DataID = 0x2 DataID = 0x1 DataID = 0x0
CCID = 0x0 CCID = 0x0 CCID = 0x0 CCID = 0x0


Figure B2.44: Normal memory 64-byte Read transaction from an aligned address


In Figure B2.44 :
• The order of the data packets, as indicated by Packet 0, Packet 1, Packet 2, and Packet 3, is such that they
follow wrap order.
• The DataID changes for each packet, while the CCID field remains constant.
• The packet containing the data bytes specified by the address of the transaction has the same value for the
CCID and DataID fields.


173

Normal Memory Read transaction
Size = 0b110 (64-bytes)


Data size boundary
Data size boundary


Addr = 0x0068


0x8F 0x80
 0x7F
0x70 0x6F 0x60 0x68 0x67 0x5F
0x50 0x4F 0x40
 0x3F
0x30 0x2F 0x20


Packet 1 Packet 0
Packet 3 Packet 2


DataID = 0x3 DataID = 0x2 DataID = 0x1 DataID = 0x0
CCID = 0x2
CCID = 0x2 CCID = 0x2 CCID = 0x2

Figure B2.45: Normal memory 64-byte Read transaction from an unaligned address


In Figure B2.45 :
• The order of the data packets, as indicated by Packet 0, Packet 1, Packet 2, and Packet 3, is such that they
follow wrap order.
• The DataID changes for each packet, while the CCID field remains constant.
• The packet containing the data bytes specified by the address of the transaction has the same value for the
CCID and DataID fields.

Normal Memory Read transaction
Size = 0b101 (32-bytes)


Data size boundary
Data size boundary

Addr = 0x0078


0x8F 0x80
 0x7F
0x78 0x77 0x70 0x6F 0x60
 0x5F
0x50 0x4F 0x40
 0x3F
0x30 0x2F 0x20


Packet 0 Packet 1


DataID = 0x3 DataID = 0x2
CCID = 0x3 CCID = 0x3

Figure B2.46: Normal memory 32-byte Read transaction from an unaligned address


174

In Figure B2.46 :
• The size of the transaction is 32-byte and the data bus width is 128-bit, resulting in 2 data packets.
• The order of the data packets, as indicated by Packet 0 and Packet 1, is such that they follow wrap order.

Normal Memory Read transaction
Size = 0b110 (64-bytes)


Addr = 0x0058
Data size boundary
Data size boundary
14-bytes written


0x8F 0x80
 0x7F
0x70 0x6F 0x60
 0x5F
0x58 0x57 0x50 0x4F 0x40
 0x3F
0x30 0x2F 0x20


Packet 2 Packet 1 Packet 0
Packet 3


DataID = 0x3 DataID = 0x2 DataID = 0x1 DataID = 0x0
CCID = 0x1 CCID = 0x1 CCID = 0x1
CCID = 0x1
BE = 0x003F BE = 0xFF00 BE = 0x0000
BE = 0x0000


Figure B2.47: Normal memory 14-byte Read transaction from an unaligned address


In Figure B2.47 :
• The order of the data packets, as indicated by Packet 0, Packet 1, Packet 2, and Packet 3, is such that they
follow wrap order.
• The DataID changes for each packet, while the CCID field remains constant.
• The packet containing the data bytes specified by the address of the transaction has the same value for the
CCID and DataID fields.
• Fourteen consecutive bytes in memory are written, as indicated by the BE bits. However, other combinations
of BE bits are permitted. See B2.9.3 Byte Enables.


175

Device Read transaction
Size = 0b110 (64-bytes)


Data size boundary
Data size boundary

Addr = 0x0058


0x8F 0x80
 0x7F
0x70 0x6F 0x60
 0x5F 0x58 0x57 0x50
0x4F 0x40
 0x3F
0x30 0x2F 0x20


Packet 2 Packet 1 Packet 0
Packet 3


DataID = 0x3 DataID = 0x2 DataID = 0x1 DataID = 0x0
CCID = 0x1 CCID = 0x1 CCID = 0x1 CCID = 0x1


Figure B2.48: Device Read transaction from an unaligned address


In Figure B2.48 :
• The shaded area indicates the valid bytes in the transaction. The valid bytes extend from the transaction
address up to the next Size boundary.
• The transaction includes the transfer of a packet that contains no valid data.


176

Device Write transaction
Size = 0b110 (64-bytes)


Data size boundary
Addr = 0x0068
Data size boundary
24-bytes written


0x8F 0x80
 0x7F
0x70 0x6F 0x67 0x60 0x50
 0x5F0x68
0x4F 0x40
 0x3F
0x30 0x2F 0x20


Packet 1 Packet 0 Packet 3
Packet 2


DataID = 0x3 DataID = 0x2 DataID = 0x1 DataID = 0x0
CCID = 0x2 CCID = 0x2 CCID = 0x2 CCID = 0x2
BE = 0xFFFF
BE = 0xFF00 BE = 0x0000 BE = 0x0000


Figure B2.49: Device Write transaction to an unaligned address


In Figure B2.49 :
• BE bits are only permitted to be 1 for the bytes from the transaction address up to the next Size boundary.
is not required that all BE bits meeting this criteria are 1.
• BE bits for bytes below the start address must be 0.


177