Chapter B4. Coherence
B4.11. Hazard

– Older data than was sent with the snoop response. This is only possible when the CopyBack write is a
WriteCleanFull, the snoop request is SnpOnce*, and the response indicates that the cache line can be
further modified.
For non-ordered transactions, the Request Node can send CompAck without waiting for DataSepResp. For
ordered transactions, the Request Node can send CompAck as soon as the first packet of DataSepResp is received.
In both cases, a Request Node must not respond to a Snoop request before receiving all data packets.
The RN-F could receive multiple snoop requests before a response is received for a pending CopyBack request for
the same cache line. In this instance, the data response carries the cache line state after the completion of the
response to the last snoop request. Such a scenario is possible because the CopyBack request can be queued
behind multiple Read and Dataless requests at the HN-F.

B4.11.2 At the ICN(HN-F) node

An HN-F orders transactions to the same cache line by sequencing transaction responses and Snoop transactions to
the Requesters. As the interconnect is not required to be ordered, the arrival order of these messages, in certain
cases, could not be the same as the order in which they were issued at the HN-F.
If a Response message that includes data requires multiple packets or beats of transfers over the interconnect,
receiving or sending the message by Home implies sending or receiving all the packets corresponding to that
message. That is, when a Home starts sending the message, all packets of the message must be sent without
dependence on completion of any other request or response message.
Similarly, when a Home accepts part of the Data message, the remaining packets of that message must be accepted
without any dependence on forward progress of any other request or response message.
When a subsequent forwarding of data depends upon receiving a Data message, the forwarding of data action can
occur after receiving the first Data packet. A subsequent Non-data forwarding action that is processing of a
subsequent request at Home as a consequence of sending or receiving of data by Home, must wait until all data is
sent or received.
The HN-F must receive a snoop response from a Snoopee before initiating another snoop to the same cache line at
the Snoopee.
While a Snoop transaction response is pending, the only transaction responses that are permitted to be sent to the
same address are:
• RetryAck for a CopyBack
• RetryAck and DBIDResp for a WriteUnique and Atomics
• RetryAck and, if applicable, a ReadReceipt for a Read request type
• RetryAck for a Dataless request type
Once a completion is sent for a transaction, the HN-F must not send a Snoop request to the same cache line until
receiving:
• A CompAck for any Read and Dataless requests except for ReadOnce* and ReadNoSnp .
• A CompAck response for a CopyBack request that the HN-F has requested completes without a data transfer.
• A CopyBackWriteData response for a CopyBack request that the HN-F has requested completes with a data
transfer.
• A NonCopyBackWriteData response for an Atomic request.
• A WriteData response, and if applicable, CompAck, for a WriteUnique request where the HN-F has not used
a DWT flow.
• A Comp response from the Subordinate Node for a WriteUnique request where the HN-F has used a DWT
flow.


ARM IHI 0050
284

Chapter B5
Interconnect Protocol Flows


This chapter shows interconnect protocol flows for different transaction types, and interconnect hazard conditions.
The protocol flows are illustrated using Time-Space diagrams. It contains the following sections:
• B5.1 Read transaction flows
• B5.2 Dataless transaction flows
• B5.3 Write transaction flows
• B5.4 Atomic transaction flows
• B5.5 Stash transaction flows
• B5.6 Hazard handling examples
See Figure 2 for details of the conventions used to illustrate protocol flow.
In the transaction flow diagrams that follow:
• There are multiple coherent Request Nodes, an HN-F, and an SN-F.
• If the HN-F receives multiple data responses, that is, one response from a snooped RN-F and another from an
SN-F, the data being forwarded to the Requester is highlighted in bold.
• There is no interconnect cache at the HN-F. This results in all requests to the HN-F initiating a request to the
SN-F.


285