Chapter B4. Coherence
B4.2. Request

ReadNoSnp
Read request by a Request Node to a Non-snoopable address region. Alternatively, from a Home Node to
any address region to obtain a copy of the addressed data. See Table B2.6 for use DMT, Order field, and

ReadNoSnpSep
ExpCompAck values.

Read request from a Home Node to Subordinate Node, requesting the Completer to send only a data

ReadOnce
response. Used when separate completion and data responses are used to complete the read transaction.

Read request to a Snoopable address region to obtain a snapshot of the coherent data.
ReadOnceCleanInvalid
Read request to a Snoopable address region to obtain a snapshot of the coherent data. It is recommended,

 it must be written back to memory.
but not required, that other cached copies of the cache line are cleaned and invalidated. If a Dirty copy is
invalidated,

Note
 is used instead of ReadOnce or ReadOnceMakeInvalid where the application
ReadOnceCleanInvalid
determines that the data is still Valid, but is not used in the near future.
Use of ReadOnceCleanInvalid by an application improves cache efficiency by reducing cache
pollution.

The following should be considered when using ReadOnceCleanInvalid :


ReadOnceMakeInvalid


– The clean and invalidation in the ReadOnceCleanInvalid transaction is a hint. Completion of the
transaction does not guarantee the cleaning or removal of all cached copies, therefore it cannot be used
as a replacement for a CMO.
– Use of the transaction can cause the deallocation of a cache line and therefore caution is needed if the
transaction could target the same cache line that other agents in the system are using for Exclusive
accesses.

Read request to a Snoopable address region to obtain a snapshot of the coherent data. It is recommended,


 hint is accepted and a Dirty copy is not written back to memory.

but not required, that other cached copies of the cache line are invalidated. If a Dirty copy is invalidated, the
cache line does not need to be written back to memory. All cached copies must be invalidated if the
invalidation

Note
 is used in preference to ReadOnce or ReadOnceCleanInvalid to obtain a
ReadOnceMakeInvalid
snapshot of a data value when the application determines that the cached data is not going to be used
again.
The application can free up the caches and also, by discarding Dirty data, avoid an unnecessary
WriteBack to memory.

The following should be considered when using ReadOnceMakeInvalid :
– The invalidation in the ReadOnceMakeInvalid transaction is a hint. Completion of the transaction does
not guarantee removal of all cached copies. The invalidation hint cannot be used as a replacement for a


ARM IHI 0050


CMO.
– Use of the transaction can cause the deallocation of a cache line and therefore caution is needed if the
transactions could target the same cache line that other agents in the system are using for Exclusive
accesses.
– The use of the ReadOnceMakeInvalid transaction can cause the loss of a Dirty cache line. Use of this
transaction must be strictly limited to scenarios where the loss of a Dirty cache line is known and

195
Issue H

Chapter B4. Coherence
B4.2. Request

harmless.
– For a ReadOnceMakeInvalid transaction, it is required that the invalidation of the cache line is
committed before the read data response for the transaction. The invalidation of the cache line is not
required to have completed at this point, but any later Write transaction from any agent, which starts
after this point, is guaranteed not to be invalidated by this transaction.
– Data must be provided to the Requester in either a I, UC, or UD state.
– The Requester must ignore the cache state in the response.
ReadClean
Read request to a Snoopable address region to obtain a clean copy of a cache line. This can be used if the
Requester is allocating the line to a cache that does not support dirty cache lines, such as an Instruction
cache. Data must be provided to the Requester in either UC or SC states only.
ReadNotSharedDirty
Read request to a Snoopable address region to carry out a load from the cache line. Data must be provided
to the Requester in UC, UD, or SC states only. SD state is not permitted.

Note
ReadNotSharedDirty is used instead of ReadShared when the Requester cannot accept data in SD
state.

ReadShared
Read request to a Snoopable address region to carry out a load from the cache line. Data must be provided
to the Requester in UC, UD, SC, or SD states.

Note
ReadShared is used instead of ReadNotSharedDirty when the Requester is able to accept data in the
SD state.

ReadUnique
Read request to a Snoopable address region to carry out a store to the cache line. Data must be provided to
the Requester in UC or UD state only.
ReadPreferUnique
Read request to a Snoopable address region requesting a unique copy of a cache line. ReadPreferUnique is
used when the Requester prefers, but does not require, the data to be returned in Unique state:
– Data is provided in Unique state unless another Request Node is currently performing an exclusive
sequence using the same address. In which case the data is provided in Shared state.
– It is permitted to always provide the data in Shared state to the Requester.

Note
This request is included in this specification to improve the execution efficiency of an exclusive
sequence.

MakeReadUnique
Read request to a Snoopable address region requesting a unique copy of a cache line. Typical usage is when
the Requester has a shared copy of the cache line and wants to obtain permission to store to the cache line.

Note
Because data return is guaranteed if the Requester receives an Invalidating snoop and retention of data
is required otherwise, resending a request to obtain a Unique copy of the cache line is never required.


ARM IHI 0050
196

B4.2.1.1 Read request attribute values
This section discusses the attribute values for Read requests across node interfaces.
See Chapter C1Message Field Mappingsfor complete list.
Table B4.1 lists permitted values for the key attributes in Read requests for Request Node to Home Node.

Table B4.1: Request Node to Home Node Read request permitted attribute values

Request Size
Excl SnpAttr MemAttr Order
(bytes)
A C D E


LikelyShared
ExpCompAck


ReadNoSnp <=64
0,1 0 0010 11 0
 0,1
0011 00,10,11 0 0,1

0000 00,10 0 0,1
0001
0101
1101
00,10 0


ReadOnce
<=64 0 1 0101
00,10 0 0,1
ReadOnceCleanInvalid
1101

ReadOnceMakeInvalid <=64 0 1 0101 00,10 0 0,1

ReadClean
64 0,1 1 0101
00 0,1
 1
ReadNotSharedDirty
1101
ReadShared

ReadUnique 64
0 1 0101
00 0
 1
1101

ReadPreferUnique 64 0,1 1 0101
00 0
 1
MakeReadUnique
1101


Table B4.2 lists the permitted values for the key attributes in Read requests for HN-F to SN-F.


197

 request permitted attribute values
Table B4.2: HN-F to SN-F Read

Request Size
Excl
Order
 SnpAttr MemAttr
(bytes)
A C D E


LikelyShared
ExpCompAck


ReadNoSnp <=64
0,1 0 0000
00,01 0 0
0001
0101


ReadNoSnpSep <=64
0 0

1101

00,01 0 0
 0000
0001
0101
1101


 B4.3 lists the permitted values for the key attributes in Read requests for HN-I to SN-I.

permitted attribute values

Request Size
Excl SnpAttr MemAttr Order
(bytes)
A C D E


LikelyShared
ExpCompAck


ReadNoSnp <=64
0,1 0 0010 11 0
 0
0011 00,01,10,11 0 0


ReadNoSnpSep <=64
0 0 0010 11 0
 0
0011 00,01,10,11 0 0

0000 00,01,10 0 0
0001
0101
1101

0000 00,01,10 0 0
0001
0101
1101

Table B4.3 lists the permitted values for the key attributes in Read requests for HN-I to SN-I.
                                               Table B4.3: HN-I to SN-I Read request permitted attribute
B4.2.1.2 Initial cache state at the Requester
Table B4.4 lists the permitted Requester cache states when a Request is sent. The following key is used for Table
B4.4, Table B4.5 and Table B4.6 :
Y Yes, permitted


198

- Not permitted
n/a Not applicable

Table B4.4: Permitted Requester cache state at the sending of Read request

Initial state
Request
UD UC SD SC I UDP UCE

ReadNoSnp -
 - - - Y - -

ReadOnce -
 - - - Y - -

ReadOnceCleanInvalid - - - - Y - -

ReadOnceMakeInvalid - - - - Y - -

ReadClean
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y
TagOp = Transfer

ReadClean
- - - - Y - Y
TagOp != Transfer

 -
 Y
ReadNotSharedDirty - - -
 Y -

 -
 Y
ReadShared -
 - -
 Y -

 Y
 Y
ReadUnique Y
 Y Y
 Y Y

ReadPreferUnique
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y
TagOp = Transfer

ReadPreferUnique
- - Y Y Y - Y
TagOp != Transfer

MakeReadUnique -
 - Y Y - - -

Final cache state at the Requester
───── ───── ─────────────── ──────── ───────────── ───────────────────── ────── ─────────────── ─────
lists the permitted cache state at the Requester at the completion of the transaction.
                                                        Table B4.5: Permitted final Requester cache state
B4.2.1.3 
Table B4.5 lists the permitted cache state at the Requester at the completion of the transaction.


Final state
Request
UD UC SD SC I UDP UCE

ReadNoSnp -
 - - - Y - -

ReadOnce -
 - - - Y - -

ReadOnceCleanInvalid -
 - - - Y - -

ReadOnceMakeInvalid -
 - - - Y - -

ReadClean
Y Y Y Y - - -
TagOp = Transfer

ReadClean
- Y - Y - - -
TagOp != Transfer

Continued on next page


199

Table B4.5 –Continued from previous page

Final state
Request

ReadNotSharedDirty Y

UD UC SD SC I UDP UCE

 Y - Y - - -

ReadShared Y
 Y Y Y - - -

ReadUnique Y
 Y - - - - -

ReadPreferUnique Y
 Y Y Y - - -

MakeReadUnique(non-Excl) Y Y - - - - -

MakeReadUnique(Excl) Y
 Y Y Y - - -


B4.2.1.4 Peer cache state
Table B4.6 lists the permitted cache state at the peer Request Nodes at the completion of the transaction.
In response to a request, the Home must send the appropriate Snoops to ensure cached lines at the peer caches are
either an expected or permitted final state.

Table B4.6: Permitted peer cache state at the completion of a Read request

Peer final state
Request
UD UC SD SC I UDP UCE No Change

ReadNoSnp n/a
 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a

ReadOnce Y
 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y

ReadOnceCleanInvalid Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y

ReadOnceMakeInvalid Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y

ReadClean -
 - Y Y Y - - -

ReadNotSharedDirty - - Y Y Y - - -

ReadShared -
 - Y Y Y - - -

ReadUnique -
 - - - Y - - -

ReadPreferUnique -
 - Y Y Y - - -

MakeReadUnique
a
- - - - Y - - -

a
For MakeReadUnique (Excl), peer caches can not be required to change state.


B4.2.2 Dataless transactions

Request Nodes use Dataless transactions to perform coherent actions without the transfer of data from or to the
Requester. The Dataless transactions, grouped for their common functionality, are:
• CleanUnique , MakeUnique
• Evict


200

Chapter B4. Coherence
B4.2. Request

• Independent Stash transactions
– StashOnceUnique, StashOnceSepUnique , StashOnceShared , StashOnceSepShared
• Cache Maintenance transactions
– CleanShared, CleanSharedPersist , CleanSharedPersistSep , CleanInvalid , CleanInvalidPoPA,
CleanInvalidStorage, MakeInvalid
Dataless transactions have the following common characteristics:


for details on Exclusive attribute in Dataless transactions.


• Data must not be included in the completion response.
• The Request can result in data movement among other agents in the system.
• The Request can result in a cache state change at the Requester. See Table B4.11 for expected and permitted
initial cache and Table B4.12 for final cache state at the Requester for each of the Dataless transactions.
• The Request can result in a cache state change at the other Request Nodes in the system. See Table B4.13 for
expected and permitted cache states at the peer Request Nodes for each of the Dataless transactions.
See Chapter B6Exclusive accesses
CleanUnique
Request to a Snoopable address region to change the cache state at the Requester to Unique to carry out a
store to the cache line. Typical usage is when the Requester has a shared copy of the cache line and wants
to obtain permission to store to the cache line. Any dirty copy of the cache line at a snooped cache must be
written back to the memory.
MakeUnique
Request to a Snoopable address region to obtain ownership of the cache line without a data response.
MakeUnique is only used when the Requester guarantees to carry out a store to all bytes of the cache line.
Any dirty copy of the cache line at a snooped cache must be invalidated without carrying out a data transfer.
Evict
Used to indicate that a Clean cache line is no longer cached by the Request Node.
StashOnceUnique, StashOnceSepUnique


.


Request to a Snoopable address region to attempt to move the addressed cache line to a targeted cache to
enable the target to store that line. The request includes:
– A valid node ID of another Request Node as the Stash target, along with an optional LPID within that
node. When a valid target is not specified, the addressed cache line can be fetched to be cached at the
request Completer.
– It is recommended, but not required, that the other agent is snooped to indicate obtaining the addressed
cache line and ensures that being in a cache state suitable for writing to the cache line.
– The DataPull request from the target Request Node is treated as a ReadUnique Request.
See Chapter 7Cache Stashing
StashOnceShared, StashOnceSepShared
Request to a Snoopable address region to attempt to move the addressed cache line to a targeted cache. The
request includes:
– The node ID of another Request Node. Optionally, the request can include the LPID within that node.
When a valid target is not specified, the addressed cache line can be fetched to be cached at the request
Completer.


.


– It is recommended, but not required, that the other agent is snooped to indicate that the other agent
obtains the addressed cache line.
– The DataPull request from the target Request Node is treated as a ReadNotSharedDirty Request.
See Chapter 7Cache Stashing

ARM IHI 0050
201
Issue H

Chapter B4. Coherence
B4.2. Request

B4.2.2.1 Cache Maintenance transactions
A Cache Maintenance Operation(CMO) assists with software cache management. The protocol includes the
following transactions to support a Cache Maintenance Operation:
CleanShared
The completion response to a CleanShared request ensures that all cached copies are changed to a
Non-dirty state and any Dirty copy is written back to memory.
CleanSharedPersist
The completion response to a CleanSharedPersist request ensures that all cached copies are changed to a
Non-dirty state and any Dirty cached copy is written back to the Point of Persistence (PoP).
CleanSharedPersistSep
The Persist or combined CompPersist completion response to a CleanSharedPersistSep request ensures that
all cached copies are changed to a Non-dirty state and any Dirty cached copy is written back to the PoP.
Functionality of CleanSharedPersistSep is similar to CleanSharedPersist but allows two separate responses
to the Requester.
When sending a PCMO, it is expected, but not required, that a Requester uses a CleanSharedPersistSep
transaction instead of CleanSharedPersist .
Such a Requester must support receiving both separate Comp and Persist responses and a combined
CompPersist response.
CleanInvalid
The completion response to a CleanInvalid request ensures that all cached copies are invalidated. The
request requires that any cached Dirty copies must be written to memory.
CleanInvalidPoPA
The completion response to a CleanInvalidPoPA request ensures that all cached copies prior to the PoPA
are invalidated. The request requires that any cached Dirty copies must be written past the PoPA. This
enables writes to a location in one PAS to be visible to other Physical Address Spaces. Additional Cache
Maintenance Operations could be required in the other Physical Address Spaces to ensure that any update
is visible.
CleanInvalidStorage
The completion response that ensures all cached copies are invalidated and any Dirty cached copies are
written back to the PoPS.
MakeInvalid
The completion response to a MakeInvalid request ensures that all cached copies are invalidated. The
request permits that any cached Dirty copies are discarded.
The following characteristics are common to all CMO transactions:
• The Resp field value in the Comp, indicating cache state, must be ignored by both the Requester and the
Home.
• Sending of a CMO transaction to the interconnect from a Request Node and from the interconnect to a
Subordinate Node is controlled by the BROADCASTPERSIST, BROADCASTCACHEMAINT ,
BROADCASTCMOPOPA , and BROADCASTSTORAGEinterface signals.

Note
Permitting Cache Maintenance Operations to be forwarded downstream of the Home Node incorporates
system topologies where some observers could directly access locations downstream of the Home Node and
software cache maintenance is required to make cached data visible to such observers.

• SnpAttr field values must be observed.


ARM IHI 0050
202
Issue H

Chapter B4. Coherence
B4.2. Request

• MemAttr values on a request received at Home must be preserved when the request is propagated to the
Subordinate, except when the Subordinate is known to only have Normal memory. In this case, the MemAttr
bit Device can be set to Normal.


Table B4.7: CMO applicability


• The caches that must be accessed when processing a CMO request depend on SnpAttr and MemAttr , and is
detailed in Table B4.7 .


MemAttr.Device MemAttr .Cacheable SnpAttr CMO
 applies to

1 0
 0
Not applicable. This is illegal.

0 0
 0
Not applicable. This is illegal.
1 0
In-line caches.
1
Peer caches and in-line caches.


• Order field must be 0b00 for:
– A CMO intended for a particular address must not be sent to the interconnect before all previous
transactions sent to the same address that can allocate the data in the Requester caches have completed.
– A transaction intended for a particular address that can allocate data in Requester caches must not be
sent to the interconnect before a previous CMO sent to the same address has completed.


Non-data a Error (NDERR).

– A Completer is permitted, but not required, to wait for WriteData to send a Persist response. Examples
of when a Completer can send an early Persist is when the Completer does not support Persistence on
that memory location or the request encounters
• A CMO is permitted, but not required, to be combined with a Write transaction to the same address when the
Combined Write requests .
write is ahead of the CMO. See B4.2.4
• When Nonshareable_Cache_Maint property is True, a CMO must apply to locations marked in the page
tables as Cacheable, irrespective of being marked Non-shareable or Shareable. The CMO must propagate to
any cache that differentiates its entries based on Shareability.
• A CMO must:
– Propagate to all caches that differentiate based on Cacheability.


, CleanShared , or CleanSharedPersist : the line must propagate to an observable point by all


– Operate on any cache lines that have been cached with the same address and same PAS. A CMO is
permitted, but not required, to operate on cache lines in a different PAS. The invalidation of a Dirty
cache line in a different PAS must be ensured to be harmless.
• If a line is operated on by a:
– CleanInvalid
agents that use the same PAS as the CMO.
– CleanInvalidPoPA : the line must propagate to the observable PoPA by all agents in any PAS.
– CleanInvalidStorage: the line must propagate to the PoPS.
– CleanSharedPersist: the line must propagate to the PoP.
– CleanSharedPersist with Deep attribute set: the line must propagate to the Point of Deep Persistence

 CMO handling at Home

(PoDP).
B4.2.2.2 Persistent
This section discusses the PoP at the Home and downstream of the Home. This section also introduces Deep
attribute in Persistent CMO.


ARM IHI 0050
203
Issue H

Chapter B4. Coherence
B4.2. Request

B4.2.2.2.1 Point of Persistence at Home
If the Home is the PoP, for CleanSharedPersistSep :
• The Home is permitted to not forward the CleanSharedPersistSep request to the Subordinate. When the
Home decides not to forward the CleanSharedPersistSep request, a Persist response must be returned to the


 downstream of Home


Requester.
• When the Home sends a Persist response, it is permitted, but not required, to combine the response with
Comp and return a single CompPersist response to the Requester.
B4.2.2.2.2 Point of Persistence
If the PoP is downstream of the Home, for CleanSharedPersistSep :
• The Home must send the request downstream.
• The Subordinate Node must return a Comp response only after guaranteeing the request is accepted. A
RetryAck response is not returned.
• When a Subordinate Node can guarantee all previous writes to the same address in a non-volatile memory
are persistent, a Persist response must be returned to the Requester or the Home. The address location also
contains the updated value even after the removal of power.
• The Home receives a Persist response from downstream. The Persist response is forwarded to the Requester:


 CMO


– The Subordinate is permitted, but not required, to return a combined CompPersist response to the Home.
– The Home is permitted, but not required, to wait for the Persist response from the Subordinate.
Permitting a Home to wait for a Persist response enables the Home to send a combined CompPersist
response to the Requester instead of returning separate Comp and Persist responses.
• If the target is volatile memory, the Persist response can be given immediately. Such a situation must not
return an error.
B4.2.2.2.3 Deep Persistent
For high availability expectations, systems with non-volatile memory require guarantees that operation-critical
data is preserved, even when the power and the back up battery fail simultaneously. The guarantee can be provided
by a system by adding a mechanism to push previous writes to the PoDP . Deep Persistent CMO is supported by an


Deep persistence, Deep


attribute, called Deep , on PCMO transactions.
If the Completer of the request with Deep = 1 does not support the Deep attribute, the Completer can ignore the
attribute value and treat the request as having Deep = 0. An error response must not be given to indicate that Deep
persistence is not supported. See B13.10.19
.
B4.2.2.3 Dataless request attribute values
This section discusses the attribute values for Dataless requests across node interfaces.
See Chapter C1Message Field Mappingsfor complete list.
Table B4.8 lists the values permitted for key attributes in Dataless requests from Request Node to Home Node.


ARM IHI 0050
204

Table B4.8: Request Node to Home Node Dataless request permitted attribute values

 Size
Excl SnpAttr
Order
Request
 MemAttr
(bytes)
A C D E


LikelyShared
ExpCompAck


CleanUnique 64
0,1 1 0101
00 0
 1
1101

MakeUnique 64
0 1 0101
00 0
 1
1101

0 1
 0
 0
Evict 64
 0101 00

64 0 1
00 0,1
 1
StashOnceUnique
 0101
StashOnceSepUnique
1101
StashOnceShared
StashOnceSepShared

64 0 1
00
a
CleanShared
 0101
CleanSharedPersist
CleanSharedPersistSep
CleanInvalid
CleanInvalidPoPA
CleanInvalidStorage
MakeInvalid

a
This field is inapplicable and must be zero.
              Table B4.9 lists the values permitted for key attributes in Dataless requests from HN-F to SN-F.

0 0101 a
00 0 0
        1101

0101 a
00 0 0
      1101
205

Table B4.9: HN-F to SN-F Dataless request permitted attribute values

 Size
Excl SnpAttr
Order
Request
 MemAttr
(bytes)
A C D E


LikelyShared
ExpCompAck


CleanShared
CleanSharedPersist
64 0 0 0101
1101
00
a
0 0

CleanSharedPersistSep
CleanInvalid
CleanInvalidPoPA
CleanInvalidStorage
MakeInvalid


 Size
Excl SnpAttr
Order
Request
 MemAttr
(bytes)
A C D E


LikelyShared
ExpCompAck


CleanShared
CleanSharedPersist
64 0 0 0101
1101
00
a
0 0

CleanSharedPersistSep
CleanInvalid
CleanInvalidPoPA
CleanInvalidStorage
MakeInvalid

a
This field is inapplicable and must be zero.
              B4.2.2.4 Initial cache state at the Requester
Table B4.11 lists the permitted Requester cache states when a request is sent. The following key is used
              B4.11, Table B4.12 and Table B4.13 :
Y Yes, permitted
- Not permitted

a
This field is inapplicable and must be zero.
              Table B4.10 lists the values permitted for key attributes in Dataless requests from HN-I to SN-I.
                                                                Table B4.10: HN-I to SN-I Dataless request permitted attribute values
 B4.11 lists the permitted Requester cache states when a request is sent. The following key is used for Table


206

Table B4.11: Permitted
 request
 Requester cache state at the sending of Dataless

Initial state
Request
UD UC SD SC I UDP UCE

CleanUnique Y
 Y Y Y Y - Y

MakeUnique -
 Y Y Y Y - Y

Evict -
 - - - Y - -

StashOnceUnique -
 - - - Y - -

StashOnceSepUnique -


 -


 - - - Y - -

StashOnceShared -
 - - - Y - -

StashOnceSepShared - - - - Y - -

CleanShared -
 Y - Y Y - -

CleanSharedPersist - Y - Y Y - -

CleanSharedPersistSep - Y - Y Y - -

CleanInvalid
 - - - Y - -

CleanInvalidPoPA -
 - - - Y - -

CleanInvalidStorage - - - - Y - -

MakeInvalid -
 - - - Y - -

Final cache state at the Requester
───── ───── ───────── ─────────── ───────── ──────────── ────────────── ────── ─────────────── ─────
lists the permitted cache state at the Requester at the completion of the transaction.
                                                 Table B4.12: Permitted final Requester cache state
B4.2.2.5 
 B4.12 lists the permitted cache state at the Requester at the completion of the transaction.

Table B4.12:

Table


Final state
Request
UD UC SD SC I UDP UCE

CleanUnique Y
 Y - - - - Y

MakeUnique Y
 - - - - - -

Evict -
 - - - Y - -

StashOnceUnique -
 - - - Y - -

StashOnceSepUnique - - - - Y - -

StashOnceShared -
 - - - Y - -

StashOnceSepShared - - - - Y - -

CleanShared -
 Y - Y Y - -

CleanSharedPersist - Y - Y Y - -

CleanSharedPersistSep - Y - Y Y - -

Continued on next page


207

Table B4.12 –Continued from previous page

Final state
Request
UD UC SD SC I UDP UCE

CleanInvalid -
 - - - Y - -

CleanInvalidPoPA -
 - - - Y - -

CleanInvalidStorage - - - - Y - -

MakeInvalid
 -
 -
 -
 -
 - Y -

Peer cache state
────── ──────── ──────────── ─────────────── ──────── ───── ─────────── ──────────── ────────── ───────────────── ────────
lists the expected and permitted cache state at the peer Request Node at the completion of the
In response to a request, the Home must send appropriate snoop to transition cached line at
either expected or permitted final states.
                  Table B4.13: Permitted peer cache state at the completion of a Dataless
B4.2.2.6
Table B4.13 lists the expected and permitted cache state at the peer Request Node at the completion of the Dataless
transaction. In response to a request, the Home must send appropriate snoop to transition cached line at the peer
caches to either expected or permitted final states.

Table B4.13:
request


Request
Peer final state
UD UC SD SC I UDP UCE No Change

CleanUnique -
 - - - Y - - -

MakeUnique -
 - - - Y - - -

CleanShared -
 Y
 Y - Y
 - - -

CleanSharedPersist -
 Y
 Y - Y
 - - -

CleanSharedPersistSep -
 Y
 Y - Y
 - - -

CleanInvalid -
 - - - Y - - -

CleanInvalidPoPA -
 - - - Y - - -

CleanInvalidStorage - - - - Y - - -

MakeInvalid -
 - - - Y - - -


The Peer Request Node cache state at the completion of Evict , StashOnceUnique , StashOnceSepUnique ,
StashOnceShared, StashOnceSepShared is not applicable.

B4.2.3 Write transactions

Write transactions move data from a Requester to a Completer, this could be the next level cache, memory, or a
peripheral. The data being transferred, depending on the transaction type, can be coherent or non-coherent. Each
write transaction must assert appropriate BE bits with the data.
B4.2.3.1 Immediate transactions
Immediate transactions, also known as Non-CopyBack Write transactions, are a subclass of Write transactions.
Immediate Write transactions transfer data from Request Nodes to Home Nodes without initially obtaining
coherent ownership of the data. Immediate Write transactions are also used to transfer data from Home Nodes to
Subordinate Nodes.
Each Immediate Write transaction must assert the appropriate BE bits with the data. Immediate Write transactions
can require snooping of other agents in the system.

208

In Immediate Write requests, except WriteNoSnpZero and WriteUniqueZero , DWT flow between the Request
Node and the Subordinate Node is permitted only when the original request from the Request Node does not use
OWO.
DWT flow between a Request Node and a Subordinate Node in WriteNoSnpZero and WriteUniqueZero is never
permitted.
WriteNoSnpFull
Write a full cache line of data from a Request Node to a Non-snoopable address region, or write for a full
cache line of data to any address region from the Home to Subordinate. All BE bits must be 1.
WriteNoSnpPtl
Write up to a cache line of data from a Request Node to a Non-snoopable address region, or write up to a
cache line of data to any address region from the Home to Subordinate. BE bits must be 1 for the
appropriate byte lanes, including all ones or all zeros, within the specified data size and must be 0 in the rest
of the data transfer.


209

Chapter B4. Coherence
B4.2. Request

WriteNoSnpDef
Deferrable write of a full cache line of data from a Request Node to a Non-snoopable address region, or
write for a full cache line of data to any address region from the Home to Subordinate. All BE bits must be
1.


WriteNoSnpZero


Note
Multiple Deferrable write transactions are permitted to be outstanding from the same Requester.


Write data value of 0 without transferring data bytes from a Request Node to a Non-snoopable address
region, or write data value of 0 without transferring data bytes to any address region from Home to

WriteUniqueFull
Subordinate.

Write to a Snoopable address region. Write a full cache line of data to the next-level cache or memory when

WriteUniquePtl
the cache line is Invalid at the Requester. All BE bits must be 1.

Write to a Snoopable address region. Write up to a cache line of data to the next-level cache or memory
when the cache line is Invalid at the Requester. BE bits must be 1 for the appropriate byte lanes within the

WriteUniqueZero
specified data size and must be 0 in the rest of the data transfer.

Write to a Snoopable address region. Write without data bytes when the data value is 0.
WriteUniqueFullStash
Write to a Snoopable address region. Write a full cache line of data to the next-level cache or memory when
the cache line is Invalid at the Requester. Also includes a request to the Stash target node to obtain the

WriteUniquePtlStash
addressed cache line. All BE bits must be 1.

Write to a Snoopable address region. Write up to a cache line of data to the next-level cache or memory
when the cache line is Invalid at the Requester. Also includes a request to the Stash target node to obtain the


B4.2.3.2
 transactions


addressed cache line. BE bits must be 1 for the appropriate byte lanes within the specified data size and
must be 0 in the remainder of the data transfer.
 CopyBack
CopyBack transactions are a subclass of Write transactions. CopyBack transactions move coherent data from a
cache to the next level cache or memory. Each CopyBack transaction must assert the appropriate BE bits with the
data. CopyBack transactions do not require the snooping of other agents in the system.
WriteBackFull
WriteBack a full cache line of Dirty data to the next level cache or memory. All BE bits must be 1, except

WriteBackPtl
when the write data is CopyBackWriteData_I.

WriteBack up to a cache line of Dirty data to the next level cache or memory. All appropriate BE bits, up

WriteCleanFull
to all 64, including all ones or all zeros, must be 1.

WriteBack a full cache line of Dirty data to the next level cache or memory and retain a Clean copy in the

WriteEvictFull
cache. All BE bits must be 1 except when the write data is CopyBackWriteData_I.

WriteBack of UniqueClean data to the next-level cache.
– All BE bits must be 1 except when the write data is CopyBackWriteData_I.


ARM IHI 0050


– The cache line must not propagate beyond its Snoop domain.


210
Issue H

WriteEvictOrEvict
WriteBack of Clean data to the next-level cache. This request type is merging of WriteEvictFull and Evict
into one request. The Home Node is allowed to determine if data is sent.
– Data might not be sent if the Completer does not accept data.
– If data is sent, the Data size is a cache line length.
– Table B4.14 indicates the recommended value for the LikelyShared field based on the state of the
cache line when the request is sent.

Note
When determining whether to complete a transaction with or without a data transfer, the
recommended LikelyShared values are provided as a hint to optimize the decision-making
process at the Home Node. In some implementations, this hint can eliminate the need for the
Home Node to look up in any snoop filter.


Table B4.14: Recommended LikelyShared values based on initial state


UC 0

value


SC 1


B4.2.3.3 Write request attribute values

across node interfaces.
in Write requests from Request Node to Home
to Home Node Write request attribute

Initial state Recommended
                LikelyShared value
This section discusses the attribute values for Write requests across node interfaces.
Table B4.15 lists the values permitted for key attributes in Write requests from Request Node to Home Node.

values
Table B4.15: Request Node 

Request Size
Excl
Order
 SnpAttr MemAttr
(bytes)
A C D E


LikelyShared
ExpCompAck


WriteNoSnpFull 64
0,1 0
a
11 0
 0
 0010
a
00,11 0
 0
0011
10 0
 0,1
0000 00 0
 0
0001
0101
1101
10 0
 0,1

Continued on next page


211

Table B4.15 –Continued from previous page

Request Size
Excl SnpAttr MemAttr Order
(bytes)
A C D E


LikelyShared
ExpCompAck


0,1 0 0010
WriteNoSnpPtl <=64
 11 0
 0
0011 00,11 0
 0
10 0
 0,1
0000 00 0
 0


0 0 0010


0001
0101
1101
10 0
 0,1
a
WriteNoSnpDef 64
11 0
 0
a
0011 00,10,11 0 0


0 0 0010
a
WriteNoSnpZero 64
11 0
 0
a
0011 00,10,11 0 0

0000 00,10 0 0
0001
0101
1101

0000 00,10 0 0
0001
WriteUniqueFull 64 0 1 0101
00 0,1
 0
WriteUniqueFullStash
1101
10 0,1
 0,1

WriteUniquePtl <=64 0 1 0101
00 0,1
 0
WriteUniquePtlStash
1101
10 0,1
 0,1

WriteUniqueZero 64
0 1 0101
00,10 0,1
 0
1101

WriteBackFull 64 0 1 0101
00 0,1
 0
WriteCleanFull
1101

WriteBackPtl 64
0 1 0101
00 0
 0
1101
Continued on next page


212

Table B4.15 –Continued from previous page

Request Size
Excl SnpAttr MemAttr Order
(bytes)
A C D E


LikelyShared
ExpCompAck


WriteEvictFull 64
0 1 1101
 0,1
 0
 00

WriteEvictOrEvict 64
0 1 1101 00 0,1
 1

a
The Addr field must be 64-byte aligned when the location is marked as Device memory.


B4.16:
attribute values

Request Size
Excl DoDWT MemAttr Order
(bytes)
A C D E


LikelyShared
ExpCompAck


WriteNoSnpFull 64
0,1 0,1 0000
00 0
a
0
a
0001
0101


WriteNoSnpPtl <=64
0,1 0,1 0000
00 0
a
0
a
1101


0001
0101


WriteNoSnpZero 64
0 0
a
1101

00 0
a
0
a
0000
0001
0101
1101

a
The field is inapplicable and must be zero.
             Table B4.17 lists the values permitted for key attributes in Write requests from HN-I to SN-I.

a
The Addr field must be 64-byte aligned when the location is marked as Device memory.
                        Table B4.16 lists the values permitted for key attributes in Write requests from HN-F to SN-F.
                                                                                      Table B4.16: HN-F to SN-F Write request permitted attribute
213

 Write request permitted attribute
Table B4.17: HN-I to SN-I
 values

Request Size
Excl DoDWT
Order
 MemAttr
(bytes)
A C D E


LikelyShared
ExpCompAck


WriteNoSnpFull 64
0,1 0,1
b
11 0
a
a
 0010
0
b
00, 10, 11 0
a
a
0011
0
a
0000 00, 10 0
a
0
0001
0101


WriteNoSnpPtl <=64
0,1 0,1

1101

 0
a
a
 0010 11
0
a
0011 00, 10, 11 0
a
0
a
0000 00, 10 0
a
0
0001
0101


WriteNoSnpDef 64
0 0,1

1101

11 0
a
b
a
 0010
0
b
00, 10, 11 0
a
a
0011
0
00, 10 0


WriteNoSnpZero 64
0 0
a
b
11 0
a
a
0010
0
b
00, 10, 11 0
a
a
0011
0
a
0000 00, 10 0
a
0
0001
0101
1101

a
The field is inapplicable and must be zero.
b
The Addr field must be 64-byte aligned when the location is marked as Device memory.
                  B4.2.3.4 Initial cache state at the Requester
Table B4.18 lists the permitted Requester cache states when a request is sent. The following key is used:
Y Yes, permitted
- Not permitted

0000 00, 10 0 a a
0
0001
214

 B4.18:
 request
Table Permitted Requester cache state at the sending of a Write

Initial state
Request
UD UC SD SC I UDP UCE

WriteNoSnpPtl -
 - - - Y - -

WriteNoSnpFull -
 - - - Y - -

WriteNoSnpDef -
 - - - Y - -

WriteNoSnpZero -
 - - - Y - -

WriteUniquePtl -
 - - - Y - -

WriteUniqueFull -
 - - - Y - -

WriteUniqueZero -
 - - - Y - -

WriteUniquePtlStash - - - - Y - -

WriteUniqueFullStash - - - - Y - -

WriteBackPtl -
 - - - - Y -

WriteBackFull Y
 - Y - - - -

WriteCleanFull Y
 - Y - - - -

WriteEvictFull -
 Y - - - - -

WriteEvictOrEvict -
 Y - Y - - -

    Final cache state at the Requester
── ──────────── ────────────── ───────────── ──────────────────── ────────── ─────────── ────────────── ────────────── ─────────── ─────────────── ────────────── ───────────────
                  Requester cache state at the completion of a Write transaction, except for WriteCleanFull , is
                  Requester cache state at the completion of a WriteCleanFull transaction is UC or SC.
    Peer cache state
    Request Node cache state at the completion of WriteNoSnpPtl , WriteNoSnpFull , WriteNoSnpDef
                  is not applicable.
    Request Node cache state at the completion of WriteUniquePtl , WriteUniqueFull , WriteUniqueZero
    WriteUniquePtlStash, and WriteUniqueFullStash must be Invalid.
    Request Node cache state at the completion of CopyBack requests is not changed. The Home
    to snoop the Peer Request Nodes to change their cache state.
                  Write requests
    transactions can be combined with Cache Maintenance transactions when both are to the same address.
    to combine the two requests to the same address is useful when a CMO or PCMO transaction
    the system where a Write operation must be completed before the CMO or PCMO transaction
    The use of a single Combined Write transaction avoids the need to serialize the Write and
    transactions. The point where the two requests are combined can be a Request Node or Home
                  and Table B4.20 show the Write, CMO, and PCMO combinations for which combining is
                  cells indicate a combination that is not permitted or not applicable.
The permitted Requester cache state at the completion of a Write transaction, except for WriteCleanFull , is Invalid.


The Peer Request Node cache state at the completion of WriteNoSnpPtl , WriteNoSnpFull , WriteNoSnpDef , and

The Peer Request Node cache state at the completion of WriteUniquePtl , WriteUniqueFull , WriteUniqueZero ,

The Peer Request Node cache state at the completion of CopyBack requests is not changed. The Home Node is not


B4.2.4 Combined

Write transactions can be combined with Cache Maintenance transactions when both are to the same address. The
ability to combine the two requests to the same address is useful when a CMO or PCMO transaction reaches a
point in the system where a Write operation must be completed before the CMO or PCMO transaction can be
initiated. The use of a single Combined Write transaction avoids the need to serialize the Write and CMO or
PCMO transactions. The point where the two requests are combined can be a Request Node or Home Node.
 B4.19 and Table B4.20 show the Write, CMO, and PCMO combinations for which combining is permitted.


215

Note
Deep is an attribute on Persistent CMO requests. Deep has not been listed explicitly as a CMO type in Table
B4.19 and Table B4.20 .
When a PCMO is combined with a write, the PCMO is treated as a CleanSharedPersistSep , that is, in
addition to a completion response, a separate Persist response is required for the CMO part of the request.


 combinations of Write and CMO for Request Node to Home Node requests


Table B4.19 shows the permitted combinations of Write and CMO requests for a Request Node to a Home Node.
Table B4.19 and Table B4.20 use the following key:
Y Yes, permitted
- Not permitted

Table B4.19: Permitted

Write type PCMO
 Non-persistent
 CMO
With separate CleanShared CleanInvalid or CleanInvalidStorage MakeInvalid
Persist response
CleanInvalidPoPA

WriteNoSnpFull Y
 Y
 Y
 -
 Y

WriteNoSnpPtl Y
 Y
 -
 -
 Y

WriteNoSnpDef -
 -
 -
 -
 -

WriteUniqueFull Y Y
 -
 Y
 -

WriteUniquePtl Y Y
 -
 -
 -

WriteUniqueFullStash - -
 -
 -
 -

WriteUniquePtlStash - -
 -
 -
 -

WriteBackFull Y Y
 Y
 Y
 -

WriteBackPtl -
 -
 -
 -
 -

WriteCleanFull Y
 -
 -
 -
 Y

WriteEvictFull -
 -
 -
 -
 -

Table B4.20 shows the permitted combinations of Write and CMO requests for a Home Node to a Subordinate
Node.
       Table B4.20: Permitted combinations of Write and CMO for Home Node to Subordinate Node
Subordinate requests

Write type
 CMO
 PCMO
 Non-persistent
CleanShared CleanInvalid or CleanInvalidStorage MakeInvalid
With separate
CleanInvalidPoPA
Persist response

WriteNoSnpFull Y Y
 Y
 Y
 -

WriteNoSnpPtl Y Y
 Y
 -
 -

WriteNoSnpDef - -
 -
 -
 -


Examples of how combining of a Write request with Cache Maintenance is useful are:

216

• Combining WriteBack with CleanShared and CleanSharedPersist , supports Request Nodes that transition the
cache line to Invalid when cleaned by a CMO irrespective of the type of CMO.
• Combining WriteUnique with CleanShared supports the case when the CleanSharedPersist target is known to
not support Persistent transactions. Therefore, the CleanSharedPersist request needs to be converted to
CleanShared by the Requester.
For each Write request the Combined Write requests are:
• WriteNoSnpFull :
– WriteNoSnpFullCleanInv
– WriteNoSnpFullCleanSh
– WriteNoSnpFullCleanShPerSep
– WriteNoSnpFullCleanInvPoPA
– WriteNoSnpFullCleanInvStrg
• WriteNoSnpPtl :
– WriteNoSnpPtlCleanInv
– WriteNoSnpPtlCleanSh
– WriteNoSnpPtlCleanShPerSep
– WriteNoSnpPtlCleanInvPoPA
• WriteUniqueFull :
– WriteUniqueFullCleanSh
– WriteUniqueFullCleanShPerSep
– WriteUniqueFullCleanInvStrg
• WriteUniquePtl :
– WriteUniquePtlCleanSh
– WriteUniquePtlCleanShPerSep
• WriteBackFull :
– WriteBackFullCleanInv
– WriteBackFullCleanSh
– WriteBackFullCleanShPerSep
– WriteBackFullCleanInvPoPA
– WriteBackFullCleanInvStrg
• WriteCleanFull :
– WriteCleanFullCleanSh
– WriteCleanFullCleanShPerSep
B4.2.4.1 Characteristics
A Combined Write request is permitted for both CopyBack and Immediate writes.
All permitted behaviors of the Combined Write request are the same as if the write and CMO are sent separately,
except that:
• WriteNoSnp (Excl) is not permitted to be combined with a CMO.


217

Chapter B4. Coherence
B4.2. Request

• TagOp setting of Match is not permitted in WriteNoSnp*CMO and WriteUnique*CMO transactions.
A Home receiving a Combined Write request from a Request Node is permitted to forward the Combined Write to
the Subordinate Node if both the write and the CMO or PCMO in the request need to be sent downstream. The
Home is also permitted to use DWT for such a Write request if the write from the Request Node is an Immediate
write and ExpCompAck is set to 0.
Where an uncombined CMO from a Request Node results in the cache line being evicted from a cache at the
Home or a Dirty copy is passed in a Snoop response, the CMO propagated to the Subordinate can be combined
with the write back to the Subordinate.
The MemAttr and SnpAttr field values in a Combined Write request correspond to the memory attributes of the
Write request. The CMO in a Combined Write is always treated as the most pervasive, regardless of the MemAttr
and SnpAttr field values.


B4.2.5 Atomic


In a Combined Write request, the Receiver is permitted to separate the write and the CMO request. The Receiver
is required:
• For the Write transaction, to retain the MemAttr and SnpAttr values of the original combined request.
• For the CMO transaction, to set the MemAttr and SnpAttr values to be the most pervasive.
• To order the CMO after the Write transaction.
After the requests are separated, the Completer is permitted to interleave requests to the same address between the
write and the CMO transaction.
The Size field value in a combined request corresponds to the size of Data in the Write request. The CMO is
always on a 64-byte granularity.

 transactions

An Atomic transaction permits a Requester to issue a transaction with a memory address and an operation to be
performed on the memory address to the interconnect. This transaction type moves the operation closer to where
the data resides and is useful for atomically executing an operation and updating the memory location in a
performance efficient manner.
Without an Atomic transaction, an atomic operation has to be executed using a sequence of memory accesses.
These accesses could rely on Exclusive reads and writes.
By using an Atomic transaction:


Point at the


• A more deterministic latency can be estimated for atomic operations.
• The blocking period of access to the memory location being modified is reduced, which subsequently
reduces the impact on the forward progress of memory accesses by other agents.
• Providing fairness among different Requesters accessing a memory location becomes simpler, because
accessing of that memory location by an atomic operation is arbitrated of Serialization(PoS) or
Point of Coherence(PoC).
This specification defines the following terms relating to atomic operations and Atomic transactions:
Atomic operation The execution of a function involving multiple data values such that, the loading of the
original value, the execution of the function, and the storing of the updated value, occurs in
an atomic manner. This means that no other agent has access to the location during the
entire operation.
Atomic transaction A transaction that is used to pass an atomic operation, along with the data values required
for the execution of the atomic operation, from one agent in a system to another, so that the
atomic operation can be carried out by a different component in the system than the
component that requires the operation to be performed.


ARM IHI 0050
218
Issue H

Chapter B4. Coherence
B4.2. Request

B4.2.5.1 Atomic transaction types
The CHI protocol defines four Atomic transaction types:
• AtomicStore
• AtomicLoad
• AtomicSwap
• AtomicCompare
See Chapter B12Memory Taggingfor a description of the Memory Tagging mechanism.
For information on the permitted MTE TagOp values for each Atomic request, see Table B16.24 .
The following terminology is used to refer to the different data elements in the execution of an atomic operation:
TxnData The write data in the AtomicLoad , and AtomicStore transactions.
CompareData The compare value in the AtomicCompare transaction.
SwapData The swap value in the AtomicCompare , and AtomicSwap transactions.
InitialData The content of the addressed location before the atomic operation.
Enumeration of the four Atomic transaction types is as follows:
AtomicStore

– Sends a single data value with an address and the atomic operation to be performed.
– The target, a Home Node or a Subordinate Node, performs the required operation on the address
location specified with the data supplied in the Atomic transaction.
– The target returns a completion response without data.
– Unlike in AtomicLoad transactions, the original value of AtomicStore transactions at the addressed
location is not returned to the Requester.
– Number of operations supported is 8.
Table B4.21 shows the eight operations supported by the AtomicStore transaction.
Each of the AtomicStore operations apply to 1 byte, 2 byte, 4 byte, or 8 byte data sizes.

Table B4.21: AtomicStore operations

Operation Action


STCLR Update location with bitwise:
(InitialData AND (NOT TxnData))

STSET Update location with bitwise:
               (InitialData OR TxnData)

STEOR Update location with bitwise:
               (InitialData XOR TxnData)

STADD Update location with:
               (TxnData + InitialData)
Continued on next page


ARM IHI 0050
219

Table B4.21 –Continued from previous page

Operation Action


STUMAX Update location with TxnData if:
(((Unsigned INT) TxnData - (Unsigned INT)
InitialData) > 0)

STUMIN Update location with TxnData if:
(((Unsigned INT) TxnData - (Unsigned INT)
InitialData) < 0)


AtomicLoad

– Sends a single data value with an address and the atomic operation to be performed.
– The target, a Home Node or a Subordinate Node, performs the required operation on the address
location specified with the data value supplied in the Atomic transaction.
– The target returns the completion response with data. The data value is the original value at the
addressed location.
– Number of operations supported is 8.
Table B4.22 shows the 8 operations supported by the AtomicLoad transaction.
Each of the AtomicLoad operations applies to 1 byte, 2 byte, 4 byte, or 8 byte data sizes.

Table B4.22: AtomicStore operations

Operation Action


LDCLR Update location with bitwise:
(InitialData AND (NOT TxnData))

LDSMIN Update location with TxnData if:
                (((Signed INT) TxnData - (Signed INT)
                InitialData) < 0)

LDSMAX Update location with TxnData if:
                (((Signed INT) TxnData - (Signed INT)
                InitialData) > 0)

LDSET Update location with bitwise:
               (InitialData OR TxnData)

LDEOR Update location with bitwise:
               (InitialData XOR TxnData)

LDADD Update location with:
               (TxnData + InitialData)

STSMIN Update location with TxnData if:
                (((Signed INT) TxnData - (Signed INT)
                InitialData) < 0)

STSMAX Update location with TxnData if:
                (((Signed INT) TxnData - (Signed INT)
                InitialData) > 0)
Continued on next page


220

Chapter B4. Coherence
B4.2. Request

Table B4.22 –Continued from previous page

Operation Action

LDUMAX Update location with TxnData if:
(((Unsigned INT) TxnData - (Unsigned INT)
InitialData) > 0)

LDUMIN Update location with TxnData if:
(((Unsigned INT) TxnData - (Unsigned INT)


AtomicSwap


InitialData) < 0)


– Sends a single data value, the swap value, together with the address of the location to be operated on.
– The target, a Home Node or a Subordinate Node, swaps the value at the address location with the data
value supplied in the transaction.
– The target returns the completion response with data. The data value is the original value at the
addressed location.
– Number of operations supported is 1.
AtomicCompare

– Sends two data values, the compare value and the swap value, with the address of the location to be
operated on.
– The target, a Home Node or a Subordinate Node, compares the value at the addressed location with
the compare value:
– If the values match, the target writes the swap value to the addressed location.
– If the values do not match, the target does not write the swap value to the addressed location.
– The target returns the completion response with data. The data value is the original value at the


ARM IHI 0050


addressed location.
– Number of operations supported is 1.
Other common characteristics of Atomic transactions are:
• Data must be included in the completion response to the Requester, except for AtomicStore transaction. For
AtomicStore, the completion response does not include the data response.
– When data is returned, inbound data size must be the same as the outbound data size, except for an
AtomicCompare transaction. In AtomicCompare , inbound data size must be half of the outbound data
size.
– The data value in the response data must be the original value at the addressed location.
– The received data must not be cached at the Requester.
• BE bits must be 1 for all valid data in the outbound data messages. BE bits for inbound data are inapplicable
and can take any value.
• The request can result in a cache state change at other Request Nodes in the system. The peer Request Node
cache state must be Invalid at the completion of the request.
• Atomic transactions cannot use DMT nor DWT flows.


221

A Requester that must perform an atomic operation on a cached copy of the line can do the following if the cache
line is:
• Unique. The atomic operation can be performed locally without generating an Atomic transaction.
• Shared but not Dirty. The Requester can either:
– Generate a ReadUnique , CleanUnique , or MakeReadUnique to gain ownership of the cache line and
perform the atomic operation locally.
– Invalidate the local copy and send the Atomic transaction to the interconnect.
• Shared Dirty. The Requester can either:
– Generate a ReadUnique , CleanUnique , or MakeReadUnique , gain ownership of the cache line, and
perform the operation locally.
– WriteBack and Invalidate the local copy and subsequently send the Atomic transaction to the
interconnect.
• Optionally, in all the above cases, the Requester is permitted, but not required, to send the Atomic transaction
with the SnoopMe bit set to direct the interconnect to send a Snoop request to the Requester to invalidate,

 attribute

and if necessary, extract the cached copy. See B13.10.33 SnoopMe.
B4.2.5.2 Atomic request values
This section discusses the attribute values for Atomic requests across node interfaces.
Table B4.23 lists the permitted values for attributes for Atomic requests from Request Node to Home Node.

 Request Node
 request permitted attribute values
Table B4.23:
 to Home Node Atomic

Request
SnoopMe SnpAttr
Order
 Size
 MemAttr
(bytes)
A C D E


LikelyShared
ExpCompAck


AtomicStore 1,2,4,8 0 0 0010 11 0
 0
AtomicLoad
AtomicSwap
0011 00,10,11 0 0

a
0,1 1 0101 00,10 0 0
               1101
                            Continued on next page

0000 00,10 0 0
0001
0101
1101
222

 B4.23 –Continued from previous page
Table

Request Size
SnoopMe SnpAttr MemAttr Order
(bytes)
A C D E


LikelyShared
ExpCompAck


AtomicCompare 2,4,8,16,32
0 0
 0
 0
 0010 11
 0 0
0011 00,10,11
00,10 0 0
0000
0001
0101

0,1
a
1101


a
The SnoopMe field is inapplicable and must be 0 in Atomic requests from an RN-D or RN-I.


 values

Request Size
SnoopMe DoDWT MemAttr Order
(bytes)
A C D E


LikelyShared
ExpCompAck


AtomicStore 1,2,4,8
0
a
0 0000
 0
a
0
a
 00
AtomicLoad
0001
AtomicSwap
0101


AtomicCompare 2,4,8,16,32
0
a
0 0000
 0
a
0
a
1101

 00
0001
0101
1101

a
The field is inapplicable and must be zero.
             Table B4.25 lists the permitted values for attributes for Atomic requests from HN-I to SN-I.

a
The SnoopMe field is inapplicable and must be 0 in Atomic requests from an RN-D or RN-I.
       Table B4.24 lists the permitted values for attributes for Atomic requests from HN-F to SN-F.
                                                             Table B4.24: HN-F to SN-F Atomic request permitted attribute

a
0,1 1 0101 00,10 0 0
               1101
 B4.25 lists the permitted values for attributes for Atomic requests from HN-I to SN-I.


223

Table B4.25:
 Atomic request permitted
 HN-I to SN-I
 attribute values

Request Size
SnoopMe DoDWT
Order
 MemAttr
(bytes)
A C D E


LikelyShared
ExpCompAck

a
AtomicStore 1,2,4,8 0
a
0 0010 11 0
a
0
AtomicLoad
AtomicSwap
a
0011 00,10,11 0
a
0
a
0000 00,10 0
a
0
0001
0101
1101
Continued on next page


224

Table B4.25 –Continued from previous page

Request Size
SnoopMe DoDWT MemAttr Order
(bytes)
A C D E


LikelyShared
ExpCompAck

a
a
a
AtomicCompare 2,4,8,16,32
0 0 0010 11 0
0
a
a
0011 00,10,11 0
0
a
a
0000 00,10 0
0
0001
0101
1101

a
The field is inapplicable and must be zero.


B4.2.5.2.1


 transactions


 Communicating node pair
See Chapter C2Communicating Nodes for expected and permitted node pairs for each Atomic transaction.
B4.2.5.3 Initial cache state at the Requester
The Requester cache state permitted at the issue of the Atomic transaction is any state.
At the time of issuing an Atomic transaction, if the Requester determines the cache state is not Invalid, or cannot
determine that the cache state is Invalid, the value of SnoopMe in the Atomic request must be 1.
B4.2.5.4 Final cache state at the Requester
The Requester cache state permitted at the completion of an Atomic transaction is Invalid.
B4.2.5.5 Peer cache state
The peer Request Node cache state at the completion of Atomic transactions is Invalid.

B4.2.6 Other

This section describes the protocol transactions that carry out miscellaneous actions.
See Chapter B12Memory Taggingfor a description of the Memory Tagging mechanism.
For information on the permitted MTE TagOp values for each miscellaneous request see Table B16.24 .
See Chapter C2Communicating Nodes for expected and permitted node pairs for other transactions.
B4.2.6.1 DVM transactions
DVM transactions are used for virtual memory system maintenance.
DVMOp DVM Operation. Actions include the passing of messages between components within a distributed
virtual memory system. See Chapter 8 DVM Operations for details.


225

B4.2.6.2 Prefetch transaction
The Prefetch target transaction is used to speculatively fetch data from main memory.
PrefetchTgt Prefetch Target. A Request to a memory address, sent from a Request Node directly to a
Subordinate Node:
– The PrefetchTgt transaction does not include a response.
– The request can be used by the Subordinate Node to fetch the data from off-chip memory. The
data can subsequently be buffered in anticipation of a subsequent Read request to the same
location.

Note
Any local buffering within the Subordinate Node must be affected in the process of giving
a Completion response for another transaction to the same location, in accordance with
Table B2.7 .

– The request does not include a response nor RetryAck. The Requester can deallocate the
request as soon as the request is sent.
– The Receiver must accept the request without dependency on receiving of a subsequent Read
request to the same address.
– The Receiver is permitted to initiate an internal action or discard the request without any further
action.
– Data read from off-chip memory using PrefetchTgt must not hold Subordinate Node resources
waiting indefinitely for a future Read request to the same address.
– The following fields are inapplicable and must be 0:
– TxnID
– Order
– Endian
– MemAttr
– SnpAttr
– Excl
– LikelyShared
– PCrdType
– DoDWT
– PrefetchTgtHint
– MultiReq
– ExpCompAck
– ReturnNID
– StashNIDValid
– StashNID
– DataTarget
– Deep
– ReturnTxnID

226

– StashLPIDValid
– StashLPID
– The Size field must be 64-bytes.
– The AllowRetry field must be 1.


Copyright © 2014, 2017-2025 Arm Limited or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
227