SnpNotSharedDirtyFwd,
Snoop request to obtain a copy of the cache line in SharedClean state while leaving any cached copy in a
 SnpNotSharedDirty


SnpSharedFwd,
Shared state. Must not leave the cache line in Unique state.
 SnpShared
Snoop request to obtain a copy of the cache line in Shared state while leaving any cached copy in Shared

SnpUniqueFwd,
state. Must not leave the cache line in Unique state.
 SnpUnique
Snoop request to obtain a copy of the cache line in Unique state while invalidating any cached copies.

SnpPreferUniqueFwd, SnpPreferUnique
Must change the cache line to Invalid state.

Snoop request to obtain a copy of the cache line in Unique state while invalidating any cached copies:
– Home is expected to use SnpPreferUniqueFwd or SnpPreferUnique in response to


SnpUniqueStash


ReadPreferUnique.
– The behavior of the Snoopee is dependent on whether an exclusive sequence is being executed.

Snoop request to invalidate the cached copy at the Snoopee and recommends that the Snoopee obtains a
copy of the cache line in Unique state:


SnpCleanShared


– Permits the Snoop response to include a DataPull .
– Data Pull request in the Snoop response is treated as a ReadUnique .

Snoop request to remove any Dirty copy of the cache line at the Snoopee. Must not leave the cache line

SnpCleanInvalid
in a Dirty state.

Snoop request to Invalidate the cache line at the Snoopee and obtain any Dirty copy. Could also be
generated by the interconnect without a corresponding request. Must change the cache line to Invalid

SnpMakeInvalid
state.

Snoop request to Invalidate the cache line at the Snoopee and discard any Dirty copy:
– Does not return data with the Snoop response, Dirty data is discarded.


SnpMakeInvalidStash
– Must change the cache line to Invalid state.

Snoop request to invalidate the copy of the cache line and recommends that the Snoopee obtains a copy
of the cache line in Unique state:
– Snoopee must not return data with the Snoop response, Dirty data must be discarded.


SnpQuery


– Permits the Snoop response to include a DataPull .
– Data Pull request in the Snoop response is treated as a ReadUnique .

SnpQuery probes the state of a cache line at a Request Node:
– Home can send a SnpQuery snoop without any corresponding request from a Requester.
– The Snoop response must include the precise state of the cache line at the targeted Snoopee.
– Snoopee must not return data with the Snoop response.


 0050


– The SnpQuery snoop must not change the state of the cache line at the Snoopee.


229

Chapter B4. Coherence
B4.3. Snoop

See B4.7.1.1 MakeReadUnique transaction and B6.3.1.1 MakeReadUnique(Excl) to see how SnpQuery

SnpDVMOp
can be used in the efficient handling of exclusive request flows.

Generated at the interconnect, initiated by the DVMOp request:
– A single DVMOp request generates two snoop requests.


See B8.2.1
– Returns a single Snoop response for the two Snoop requests.
Non-sync type DVM transaction flow .


ARM IHI 0050
230