Chapter B4. Coherence
 

Table B4.26 –Continued from previous page

Request category Request Expected
 Snoop

ReadUnique SnpUniqueFwd


 or SnpUniqueFwd
ReadPreferUnique SnpPreferUniqueFwd
b
MakeReadUnique SnpCleanInvalid

Dataless CleanUnique
MakeUnique SnpMakeInvalid
 SnpCleanInvalid


Evict None
CleanShared SnpCleanShared


 SnpCleanInvalid


CleanSharedPersist SnpCleanShared
CleanSharedPersistSep
CleanInvalid
CleanInvalidPoPA
CleanInvalidStorage
 SnpMakeInvalid
MakeInvalid

 SnpStashUnique
Dataless-stash StashOnceUnique
StashOnceSepUnique
StashOnceShared SnpStashShared


Write WriteNoSnp

StashOnceSepShared

 None
WriteNoSnpDef None
WriteUniqueFull SnpMakeInvalid
 or SnpUnique
WriteUniquePtl SnpCleanInvalid
WriteUniqueZero SnpMakeInvalid

 SnpMakeInvalidStash
c
Write-stash WriteUniqueFullStash
WriteUniquePtlStash SnpUniqueStash or SnpMakeInvalidStash

Write-CopyBack WriteBack
WriteCleanFull
 None


WriteEvictFull


Atomic AtomicStore

WriteEvictOrEvict

 SnpUnique
AtomicLoad SnpUnique
AtomicSwap SnpUnique
AtomicCompare SnpUnique
Continued on next page


232

Chapter B4. Coherence
B4.4. Request

Table B4.26 –Continued from previous page

Request category Request Expected
 Snoop

Others DVMOp
 SnpDVMOp
PCrdReturn Not
 applicable.
PrefetchTgt

a
Forwarding snoops cannot be used for requests of less than 64B.
b
Home is expected to use SnpUniqueFwd if the Requester is determined to have lost its copy of the cache line.
c
Possible if Home already has the latest copy of the line.


The interconnect has the following behavior when generating a snoop request on receipt of a request from a
Request Node:
• This specification supports a snoop filter or directory within the interconnect to track the state of cache lines
present in RN-F caches. The tracking can be as detailed as knowing each RN-F that has a copy of the cache
line, or as nonspecific as knowing that a cache line is present in one of the RN-F caches. Such tracking
permits the interconnect to filter unnecessary snooping of an RN-F, for example:
– If the snoop filter indicates that the cache line is not present in any of the RN-F caches, the interconnect
does not send a snoop request.
– If the cache line in the RN-F caches is already in the required state, for example the received request is
ReadShared and all cached copies of the cache line are in SC state, the interconnect does not send a
snoop request.
• The interconnect in response to a WriteUniqueFull , WriteUniqueFullStash , MakeUnique , and MakeInvalid
must not use the SnpMakeInvalid snoop request unless either:
– The transaction TagOp value is Update.


ARM IHI 0050


– The interconnect can determine that the Snoopee does not hold Dirty tags.
• The interconnect in response to a MakeReadUnique must not use the SnpMakeInvalid Snoop request unless
the interconnect can determine either that:
– The Requester still has a cached copy of the cache line and the Snoopee does not have Dirty tags.
– The Requester has lost its cached copy and the Snoopee does not have a Dirty copy of the cache line.
• It is permitted for the interconnect to generate a snoop request spontaneously without a corresponding
request from a Request Node. For example, the interconnect can send a SnpUnique or SnpCleanInvalid
request as a result of a backward invalidation from a snoop filter or interconnect cache.
• It is permitted for the interconnect to select which snoop request to send. For example:
– For a WriteUniquePtl request, either a SnpCleanInvalid or SnpUnique snoop request can be sent. Both
of these snoop transactions invalidate the cache line. If the cache line is dirty, data is returned with the
response. The write data is written to memory once all Snoop responses are received and the partial data
has been merged with any dirty data received with the Snoop response. The only difference in the
behavior between the SnpCleanInvalid and SnpUnique snoop requests is that SnpUnique can return data
from the UniqueClean (UC) state but SnpCleanInvalid does not. Using SnpUnique therefore could
result in an unnecessary data transfer. This example shows the disadvantage of using SnpUnique instead
of SnpCleanInvalid in certain circumstances.
• The interconnect is permitted to:


233
Issue H

– For ReadNotSharedDirty , ReadShared , and ReadClean transactions, use SnpNotSharedDirty or
SnpShared or SnpClean.
– For ReadShared transactions, use SnpNotSharedDirtyFwd or SnpSharedFwd or SnpCleanFwd.
– For ReadNotSharedDirty and ReadClean transactions, use SnpNotSharedDirtyFwd or SnpCleanFwd.
– For the ReadOnce transactions, use any Non-forwarding, Non-invalidating snoop types.
– For the ReadOnceCleanInvalid and ReadOnceMakeInvalid transactions, use any Non-forwarding snoop
types except SnpMakeInvalid.
– For the ReadOnce and ReadOnceCleanInvalid transactions, use Forwarding snoop type SnpOnceFwd.
– For ReadOnceMakeInvalid transactions, use Forwarding snoop type SnpUniqueFwd or SnpOnceFwd.
– For WriteUniqueFullStash and WriteUniquePtlStash transactions, send SnpStashUnique or
SnpMakeInvalidStash to the target Request Node if the target Request Node does not have the cache
line.
– Replace any Invalidating snoop request by the SnpUnique or SnpCleanInvalid request.
– Replace any Forwarding snoop with a corresponding non-Forwarding type. The receiver is permitted to
treat the forward indication as a hint and respond to the snoop with a corresponding non-Forwarding
version in a protocol-compliant manner. This is permitted irrespective of the use of MTE. Forwarding
snoops must not be used for requests of less than 64B.
– Use of SnpMakeInvalid for MakeInvalid and WriteUniqueZero is permitted only when the Home knows
that the Snoopee does not have Dirty tags.


234