Chapter B4. Coherence
B4.5. Response

Table B4.27 –Continued from previous page

[2:0] Final expected cache line Notes
a
state

CompData_UC 0b010 UC, UCE, SC, or I, when This response is also permitted for
DataSepResp_UC
the cache state in the ReadNoSnp and ReadOnce*
RespSepData_UC
response is applicable. transactions but the cache line is not
coherent.
Responsibility for a Dirty cache line
is not being passed.

Responsibility for a Dirty cache line
is not being passed.


Responsibility for a Dirty cache line
is being passed.

CompData_SD_PD 0b111 SD Responsibility for a Dirty cache line
                           is being passed.

CompData_UD_PD 0b110 UD or SD Responsibility for a Dirty cache line
DataSepResp_UD_PD is being passed.
RespSepData_UD_PD

CompData_SC 0b001 SC or I Responsibility for a Dirty cache line
DataSepResp_SC is not being passed.
RespSepData_SC

Response Resp [2:0] Final expected cache Notes line
                             a
state
Responsibility for a Dirty cache line


a

is being passed.

The final cache line state can be different from those listed when the start state is not Invalid. See Table B4.38 for more information.


Error response fields .
In a response with a NDERR indication, the cache state encoded in Resp is permitted to be any value, including
reserved values. See B9.1.2
B4.5.1.2 Dataless transaction completion
A completion for Dataless transactions and the MakeReadUnique transaction without data is sent on the CRSP
channel and uses the Comp, CompPersist, CompCMO, or CompStashDone opcode.
CompCMO is the completion message for the CMO and PCMO in a Combined Write transaction. CompCMO
must only be used in Combined Write transactions. CompCMO can be combined with Persist response as
CompPersist opcode.
The Comp response includes the Resp field that indicates the following:
Cache state The final state the cache line is permitted to be in at the Requester, except for CMO transactions and


Independent Stash requestfor more information.


StashOnce* transactions.
– For CMO transactions in Comp, CompCMO, and CompPersist responses, the cache state field
value in the completion is ignored and the cache state remains unchanged.
– For StashOnce* transactions in Comp and CompStashDone responses, the cache sate field value
is permitted, but not required, to be used to indicate the presence of the cache line at the next
level. See B7.3
Table B4.28 shows the permitted Dataless transaction completion, the encoding of the Resp field, and the meaning
of the response.


ARM IHI 0050
236

Chapter B4. Coherence
B4.5. Response

Table B4.28: Permitted Dataless transaction completion and Resp field encodings

 Resp
 Final cache line state Notes
Response
[2:0]

Comp_I
0b000
I

Comp_UC
0b010
UD, UC, UCE, SC, or I

Comp_SC
0b001
SC or I

Comp_SD
0b011
Not applicable Only
 used in Comp or
CompStashDone for StashOnce*
transactions.

Comp_UD_PD 0b110 UD or SD Responsibility for a Dirty cache line
                             is being passed.
Responsibility for a Dirty cache line
is being passed.


In a response with a NDERR indication, the cache state encoded in Resp is permitted to be any value, including
 and transaction structure . See B2.3.2.4Combined Immediate Write and CMO
reserved values. See B9.1.3 Errors
for CompCMO and CompPersist. See B7.3 Independent Stash requestfor CompStashDone.
B4.5.1.3 Write and Atomic transaction completion
A Write and AtomicStore completion is sent on the CRSP channel and uses the Comp or CompDBIDResp opcode.


WriteNoSnpDef for more information. All

No cache state information, or responsibility for a Dirty cache line, is communicated using the Write transaction
completion. The Resp field of a Comp or CompDBIDResp response must be zero for any Write transaction
completion, except for a WriteNoSnpDef transaction. See B4.5.1.3.1
cache state information and responsibility for a Dirty cache line are communicated with the WriteData. See B4.5.2
WriteData response.
The permitted Write transaction completion responses are:
Comp
Used when:
– The completion response is separate from the DBIDResp or DBIDRespOrd response.
– An HN-F requests that a CopyBack transaction completes without a data transfer.
CompDBIDResp Used when:
– The completion response is combined with the DBIDResp or DBIDRespOrd response.
– An HN-F requests that a CopyBack transaction completes with a data transfer.
Immediate writes and AtomicStore , can either send Comp and DBIDResp or DBIDRespOrd responses separately
or can opportunistically combine the two responses and send CompDBIDResp if both are ready to be sent to the
Requester.
B4.5.1.3.1 WriteNoSnpDef
The permitted Resp field and RespErr field value combinations in Comp or CompDBIDResp responses for
WriteNoSnpDef transactions are shown in Table B4.29 .


ARM IHI 0050
237

Chapter B4. Coherence
B4.5. Response

Table B4.29: WriteNoSnpDef permitted Resp and RespErr field value combinations in Comp and
CompDBIDResp

RespErr[1:0] Resp [2:0] Response Description

OK/Successful The Completer supports the WriteNoSnpDef
                    transaction and the Deferrable write is successful.
00 000

001
OK/Unsupported The Completer does not support WriteNoSnpDef
transaction.
The Requester must complete the transaction flow.
The Completer must not update memory.
010
OK/Defer The Completer supports WriteNoSnpDef
transaction. The transaction cannot be serviced at
this time and is not successful.
The Memory location is not updated.

Note
The processing of the Defer response and
resending of the request is expected to be
done by the software running on the Request
Node. Hardware at the Request Node is
not expected to process the Defer response
and resend the request. An OK/Defer
decision for one request does not influence
the decision on the next ordered request.


10 000
DERR Data
 error

11 000
NDERR Non-data error

Others Reserved
 Reserved


An HN-F is permitted, but not expected, to be the target Home Node for the WriteNoSnpDef request. An HN-F,
that receives an unexpected WriteNoSnpDef request, must not forward the WriteNoSnpDef request to an SN-F.
The HN-F must return a response of OK/Unsupported.
If a Home Node detects that a Deferrable write is targeting a Subordinate that does not support Deferrable writes,
the transaction must not be propagated. The Home is recommended send an OK/Unsupported response. The
Home is permitted, but not recommended, to send NDERR response instead of the OK/Unsupported response.
B4.5.1.4 Miscellaneous transaction completion
A Comp response, with the Resp field set to 0, is always used for DVM transaction completion.

B4.5.2 WriteData response

The WriteData response is part of Write request and DVMOp transactions. The Requester sends WriteData to the
Completer after receiving a guarantee that a buffer is available to accept the data. Buffer availability is signaled
through a DBIDResp or DBIDRespOrd response sent from the Completer.
The WriteData response is sent on the WDAT channel and uses the following opcodes.
CopyBackWriteData, CBWrData
Used for WriteBack , WriteCleanFull , WriteEvictFull , and WriteEvictOrEvict , and CopyBack


ARM IHI 0050
238

Combined Write transactions. Transfers coherent data from the cache at the Requester to the
interconnect. Includes an indication of the cache line state prior to sending the WriteData response.
 NCBWrData
NonCopyBackWriteData,
Used for WriteUnique and WriteNoSnp , WriteNoSnpDef , and Combined Immediate Write

 NCBWrDataCompAck
transactions. Also used for a DVMOp transaction. The cache state in the response must be I.
NonCopyBackWriteDataCompAck,
Used for Immediate Write and Combined Write transactions. Combined NonCopyBackWriteData and
CompAck. The cache state in the response must be I.
WriteDataCancel
Used to inform the Completer that a Write request is canceled before write data is sent.
– A Request Node can send WriteDataCancel instead of NonCopyBackWriteData in WriteNoSnpPtl ,
WriteUniquePtl, WriteUniquePtlStash , and corresponding Combined Write transactions.
– A Home Node can send WriteDataCancel instead of NonCopyBackWriteData in WriteNoSnpFull ,
WriteNoSnpPtl, and corresponding Combined Write transactions to the Subordinate Node.
– A Request Node or Home Node can send WriteDataCancel instead of NonCopyBackWriteData in
WriteNoSnpDef transactions, if NDERR, OK/Defer, or OK/Unsupported are seen in a:
– Comp response that arrives before NonCopyBackWriteData is sent
– CompDBIDResp response
– Must not be used in Write requests to Device memory, except during WriteNoSnpDef transactions.


 B4.30: Permitted WriteData responses, and Opcode and Resp field encodings


– All data packets originally intended to be transferred must be sent. BE field value in the
WriteDataCancel message must be all zeroes.
– Cache state in the response must be I.
The response includes the Resp field, which indicates the following:
Cache state Indicates the state of the cache line before sending the WriteData response. This state can differ
from the state of the cache line when the original transaction request was sent if a snoop request, to
the same address, is received by the Requester after sending the original transaction request, but
before sending the corresponding WriteData response.
Pass Dirty Indicates if the responsibility for updating memory is passed by the Requester. A _PD in the
response name indicates that the Pass Dirty bit is 1.
Table B4.30 shows the permitted WriteData responses, the Opcode and Resp field encodings, and the meaning of
the response.

Table

Response DAT
 Opcode Resp [2:0] Cache line Notes
state when
data was sent

CopyBackWriteData_I
0x2 0b000
Imprecise and Indicates a CopyBack request has
must be been canceled.
ignored. The data in the response must be
zero and all BE must be 0.

CopyBackWriteData_UC 0x2 0b010 UC Data corresponding to a CopyBack
                                              request.
Continued on next page


239

Table B4.30 –Continued from previous page

Response DAT
 Opcode Resp [2:0] Cache line Notes
state when
data was sent

WriteDataCancel 0x7 0b000 I Indicates an Immediate Write
                                         request has been canceled.
                                         The data in the response must be
                                         zero and all BE must be 0.

NonCopyBackWriteDataCompAck 0xC 0b000 I Data corresponding to an
                                                Immediate Write request and
                                                combined CompAck to indicate that
                                                the transaction has completed.

NonCopyBackWriteData 0x3 0b000 I Data corresponding to an
                                             Immediate Write request.

CopyBackWriteData_SD_PD 0x2 0b111 SD Data corresponding to a CopyBack
                                             request.
                                                       Responsibility for updating the
                                             memory is passed.

CopyBackWriteData_UD_PD 0x2 0b110 UD or UDP Data corresponding to a CopyBack
                                                       request.
                                                       Responsibility for updating the
                                               memory is passed.

CopyBackWriteData_SC 0x2 0b001 SC Data corresponding to a CopyBack
                                              request.
B4.5.3


Note
The cache line state at the Requester after the Write transaction has completed is not determined from the
cache state information in the WriteData response. The cache line can be determined to remain Valid or not
after the transaction by the opcode of the transaction:
• A WriteBack or WriteEvictFull transaction must be in I state.
• A WriteCleanFull transaction can remain allocated and be in a Clean state.

 Snoop response

A Snoop transaction includes a Snoop response. A Snoop response can be with or without data. The forms of

 without data
Snoop response are:
Snoop response

– This Snoop response is used when no data transfer is required.
– It is sent on the SRSP channel and uses the SnpResp opcode.


 without data to Home and DCT


– For Stash snoops, a DataPull request can be included.
– Snoop response without data is always used for the response to a SnpDVMOp transaction.
Snoop response


240

Chapter B4. Coherence
B4.5. Response

– This Snoop response is used when the Snoopee sends Data to the Requester and a data transfer to the
Home is not required.


 data
– It is sent on the SRSP channel and uses the SnpRespFwded opcode.
Snoop response with

– This Snoop response is used when a full cache line of data is transferred to Home.


 partial data


– It is sent on the WDAT channel and uses the SnpRespData opcode.
– For Stash snoops, a DataPull request can be included.
Snoop response with

– This Snoop response is used when a partial cache line of data is transferred to the Home.
– It is sent on the WDAT channel and uses the SnpRespDataPtl opcode.


 data to Home and DCT


– For Stash snoops, a DataPull request can be included.
– It is sent when the combination of the Snoop request and cache line state is:
– Any Snoop request except SnpMakeInvalid, and the cache line state is UDP.
Snoop response with

– This Snoop response is used when the Snoopee sends Data to the Requester and a data transfer to the
Home is also required.
– It is sent on the DAT channel and uses the SnpRespDataFwded opcode.
The Snoop response includes the Resp field, which indicates the following:
Cache state The final state of the cache line at the snooped node after sending the Snoop response.
Pass Dirty Indicates that the responsibility for updating memory is passed to the Requester or Interconnect.
Pass Dirty must only be 1 for a Snoop response with data. A _PD in the response name indicates
that the Pass Dirty bit is 1.


for details on Snoop responses and MTE interaction.


The Snoop response also includes the FwdState field that is applicable in Snoop responses with DCT and indicates
the cache state and pass dirty value in the CompData response sent to the Requester.
The Snoop response attributes convey sufficient information for the interconnect to determine both:
• The appropriate response to the initial Requester
• If data must be written back to memory.
The Snoop response attributes are also sufficient to support snoop filter or directory maintenance in the
interconnect.
See B12.9 Snoop requests


ARM IHI 0050
241

Note
The Snoop response cache state information provides the state of the cache line after the Snoop response is
sent. This is different from:
• A WriteData response, where the cache state information provides the state of the cache line at the
point the write data is sent.
• A read data response, where the cache state information indicates the permitted state of the cache line
after the transaction completes.

Table B4.31 shows the permitted Non-forward type snoop responses without data, the RSP Opcode and Resp field
encodings, and the meaning of the response.

Table B4.31: Permitted Non-forward type snoop responses without data

Response RSP
 Opcode Resp [2:0] Cache line state

SnpResp_I
0x1 0b000
I

SnpResp_SC 0x1 0b001
SC or I

SnpResp_UC 0x1 0b010
UC, UCE, SC, or I

SnpResp_UD 0x1 0b010
UD

SnpResp_SD 0x1 0b011
SD


Table B4.32 shows the permitted Forward type snoop responses without data, the RSP Opcode, Resp , and
FwdState field encodings, and the meaning of the response. The permitted Forward type snoop responses listed in
Table B4.32 forward a copy of the data to the Requester.

Table B4.32: Permitted Forward type snoop responses without data

Response RSP
Resp[2:0] FwdState [2:0] Cache Forwarded Notes
Opcode
line state state
at
Snoopee

SnpResp_I_Fwded_I 0x9 0b000 0b000
I I

SnpResp_I_Fwded_SC 0x9 0b000 0b001
I SC

SnpResp_I_Fwded_UC 0x9 0b000 0b010
I UC

SnpResp_I_Fwded_SD_PD 0x9 0b000 0b111 I SD Responsibility for
                                                   updating the memory
                                                   is passed

SnpResp_I_Fwded_UD_PD 0x9 0b000 0b110 I UD Responsibility for
                                                   updating the memory
                                                   is passed
SnpResp_SC_Fwded_I 0x9 0b001 0b000
SC I

SnpResp_SC_Fwded_SC 0x9 0b001 0b001
SC SC

Continued on next page


242

Table B4.32 –Continued from previous page

Response RSP
Resp[2:0] FwdState [2:0] Cache Forwarded Notes
Opcode
line state state
at
Snoopee


updating the memory


SnpResp_UC_Fwded_I 0x9 0b010 0b000
UC or UD I
SnpResp_UD_Fwded_I
Note
A single
encoding is
used to
indicate that
the cache line
is Unique. This
encoding is
used for UC
and UD.


SnpResp_SD_Fwded_I 0x9 0b011 0b000
SD I

SnpResp_SD_Fwded_SC 0x9 0b011 0b001
SD SC


 B4.33 shows the permitted Non-forward type snoop responses with data, the DAT Opcode and Resp field
encodings, and the meanings of the response.

B4.33:
snoop responses data

Response DAT
 Opcode Resp [2:0] Cache line Notes
state

SnpRespData_I 0x1 0b000
I


SnpRespData_SC 0x1 0b001
SC

SnpRespData_SD 0x1 0b011
SD

 for updating the

SnpRespData_UC_PD 0x1 0b110 UC Responsibility for updating the
                                  memory is passed to the Home

SnpRespData_I_PD 0x1 0b100 I Responsibility for updating the
                                               memory is passed to the Home

SnpRespData_UC 0x1 0b010 UC or UD
SnpRespData_UD Note
                                     A single encoding is used to
                                     indicate that the cache line is
                                     Unique. This encoding is used
                                     for UC and UD.

Table B4.33 shows the permitted Non-forward type snoop responses with data, the DAT Opcode and Resp
       encodings, and the meanings of the response.
                                        Table B4.33: Permitted Non-forward type snoop responses with

SnpResp_SC_Fwded_SD_PD 0x9 0b001 0b111 SC SD Responsibility for
                                                     updating the memory
                                                     is passed
 for updating the


Continued on next page


243

Table B4.33 –Continued from previous page

Response DAT
 Opcode Resp [2:0] Cache line Notes
state

 for updating the


SnpRespDataPtl_UD 0x5 0b010
UDP Partial data


 B4.34 shows the permitted Forward type snoop responses with data, the DAT Opcode , Resp , and FwdState
field encodings, and the meaning of the response.

 with data

Response RSP
Resp[2:0] FwdState [2:0] Cache Forwarded Notes
Opcode
line state
state

SnpRespData_I_Fwded_SC 0x6 0b000 0b001
I SC

SnpRespData_I_Fwded_SD_PD 0x6 0b000 0b111
I SD Responsibility
 for
updating the memory
is passed to the
Requester

SnpRespData_SC_Fwded_SC 0x6 0b001 0b001
SC SC

SnpRespData_SC_Fwded_SD_PD 0x6 0b001 0b111
SC SD Responsibility
 for
updating the memory
is passed to the
Requester

SnpRespData_SD_Fwded_SC 0x6 0b011 0b001
SD SC


updating the memory
is passed to the Home


updating the memory
is passed to the Home


updating the memory
is passed to the Home


updating the memory
is passed to the Home

The cache line state associated with a Snoop response with data must be a legal value, even if the RespErr
indicates there is a Data Error (DERR). A Snoop response with data is not permitted to have a NDERR.
B9.1.4.7 Snoop transactions .

SnpRespData_SC_PD_Fwded_SC 0x6 0b101 0b001 SC SC Responsibility for
                                                         updating the memory
                                                         is passed to the Home

SnpRespData_SC_PD_Fwded_I 0x6 0b101 0b000 SC I Responsibility for
                                                                   updating the memory
                                                                   is passed to the Home

SnpRespData_I_PD_Fwded_SC 0x6 0b100 0b001 I SC Responsibility for
                                                       updating the memory
                                                       is passed to the Home

SnpRespData_I_PD_Fwded_I 0x6 0b100 0b000 I I Responsibility for
                                                                 updating the memory
                                                                 is passed to the Home

Table B4.34 shows the permitted Forward type snoop responses with data, the DAT Opcode , Resp , and
field encodings, and the meaning of the response.
                                                                    Table B4.34: Permitted Forward type snoop responses

SnpRespDataPtl_I_PD 0x5 0b100 I Partial data.
                                                   Responsibility for updating the
                                           memory is passed to the Home.

SnpRespData_SC_PD 0x1 0b101 SC Responsibility for updating the
                                  memory is passed to the Home
The cache line state associated with a Snoop response with data must be a legal value, even if the RespErr field
indicates there is a (DERR). A Snoop response with data is not permitted to have a NDERR. See
Snoop transactions.


244

In responses to stash snoops, the Snoopee can send a Read request combined with the Snoop response
(SnpResp_X_Read), by setting the DataPull bit. The permitted Snoop responses with Data Pull are:
• For SnpUniqueStash:
– SnpResp_I_Read
– SnpRespData_I_Read
– SnpRespData_I_PD_Read
– SnpRespDataPtl_I_PD_Read
• For SnpMakeInvalidStash:
– SnpResp_I_Read
• For SnpStashUnique:
– SnpResp_I_Read
– SnpResp_UC_Read
– SnpResp_SC_Read
– SnpResp_SD_Read
• For SnpStashShared:
– SnpResp_I_Read
– SnpResp_UC_Read

B4.5.4 Miscellaneous response

This section describes responses that cannot be classified as a completion, WriteData, or Snoop response.
The miscellaneous responses are:
CompAck

– Sent by the Requester on receipt of the completion response.
– Used by Read, Dataless, WriteNoSnp , WriteUnique , and CopyBack Write transactions.
– The RespErr field is applicable and must be zero.
– For Immediate Write transactions, the Resp value in a CompAck response is inapplicable and must be
zero.
– For CopyBack Write transactions, the Resp value in a CompAck response is applicable. The permitted
values for Resp in CompAck are shown in Table B4.35 .
See B2.3 Transaction structure.

Table B4.35: Permitted CompAck responses for CopyBack Write transactions

Response RSP
Resp[2:0] Cache line state Action when a Notes
Opcode
when response hidden copy of the
was sent cache line is at
Home

CompAck_I 0x2 0b000 Imprecise and Must not yet be Indicates a
                      must be ignored exposed CopyBack request
                                                                has been canceled
Continued on next page


245

Table B4.35 –Continued from previous page

Response RSP
Resp[2:0] Cache line state Action when a Notes
Opcode
when response hidden copy of the
was sent cache line is at
Home

CompAck_SD_PD 0x2 0b111 SD Expected, but not Responsibility for
                                        required, to be updating the memory
                                        exposed is passed

CompAck_UD_PD 0x2 0b110 UD Expected, but not Responsibility for
                                        required, to be updating the memory
                                        exposed, unless a is passed
                                        Unique copy still
                                        exists a
elsewhere

CompAck_SC 0x2 0b001 SC Expected, but not
                                     required, to be
                                     exposed

CompAck_UC 0x2 0b010 UC Expected, but not
                                     required, to be
                                     exposed, unless a
                                     Unique copy still
                                     exists a
elsewhere
a
A Unique copy can still exist at the Requester when the CopyBack Write transaction was a WriteCleanFull .


RetryAck

– Sent by a Completer to a Requester if the request is not accepted at the Completer due to lack of
appropriate resources.
– Response is permitted for any request transaction except PCrdReturn or PrefetchTgt .
– The RespErr field is applicable and must be zero.
– The Resp field is inapplicable and must be zero.
See B2.3.8 Retry.
PCrdGrant

– Grants a Protocol Credit. A subsequent request, sent using the Protocol Credit, is guaranteed to be
accepted by the target.
– The RespErr field is applicable and must be zero.
– The Resp field is inapplicable and must be zero. See B2.3.8 Retry.
ReadReceipt

– Sent for a request that has an ordering requirement with respect to other ordered requests from the
same Requester.
– Sent by a Subordinate Node to indicate it has accepted a Read request and will not send a RetryAck
response.

246

Chapter B4. Coherence
B4.5. Response


See B2.3.1


– See B2.7.5.1Ordering requirements for how ReadReceipt is used in an ordered request.
– Applies to ReadNoSnp , ReadNoSnpSep , and ReadOnce* request transactions.
– The RespErr field is applicable and must be zero.
– The Resp field is inapplicable and must be zero.
Read transactions.
DBIDResp

– Response sent to signal to the Requester that resources are available to accept the WriteData response.
– DBIDResp response also indicates that the Completer provides certain transaction ordering
guarantees. See B2.7.5Transaction ordering.
– Applies to Write, Combined Write, DVMOp , and Atomic request transactions.
– The response is permitted from Home Node to Request Node and Subordinate Node to both a Home
Node and Request Node.
– The RespErr field is applicable and must be zero.
– The Resp field is inapplicable and must be zero.
See B2.3 Transaction structure.
DBIDRespOrd

– Response sent to signal to the Requester that resources are available to accept the WriteData response.
– DBIDRespOrd response also indicates that the Completer provides certain transaction ordering
guarantees. See B2.7.5Transaction ordering.
– Applies to Write, Combined Write, and Atomic request transactions.
– DBIDRespOrd is not permitted in DVM transactions.
– The response is permitted from Home Node to Request Node only.
– The RespErr field is applicable and must be zero.
– The Resp field is inapplicable and must be zero.
See B2.7.5 Transaction ordering.
Persist

– Sent by a Completer for CleanSharedPersistSep transaction to indicate that any data written earlier to
the same memory location is made persistent.
– The RespErr field is applicable. See Table B9.5 .
– The Resp field is inapplicable and must be zero.
See B2.3.2.5 Combined Immediate Write and Persist CMO
CMO.
and B2.3.2.6 Combined CopyBack Write and


ARM IHI 0050


StashDone

– Sent by a Completer for StashOnceSep to signal the ordering of the request at the Completer.
– The RespErr field is applicable. See Table B9.6 .
– The Resp field is inapplicable and must be zero.

247

TagMatch
See B7.3 Independent Stash request .


– Sent by the Completer for a Write transaction with TagOp of Match to signal the completion of the
Tag Match operation.


Tag Match


– The RespErr field is applicable. See Table B9.9 .
– The Resp field is applicable. See Table B13.35 .
See B12.11.1 .


248