RN-F0 RN-F1
HN-F
SN-F
I
I

ReadShared

SnpShared

SnpResp_I
ReadNoSnp

CompData_UC
UC

CompAck


Figure B5.2: DMT Read transaction example with snoops and data from memory


The steps in the ReadShared transaction flow in Figure B5.2 are:
1. RN-F0 sends a ReadShared request to HN-F.
2. HN-F sends a SnpShared request to RN-F1. RN-F1 returns SnpResp_I response to HN-F.
3. HN-F sends a ReadNoSnp request to SN-F after receiving the Snoop response from RN-F1. This guarantees
that RN-F1 has not responded with data.
4. SN-F sends a data response directly to RN-F0, using CompData_UC.
5. RN-F0 sends CompAck to HN-F as the request is ReadShared and requires CompAck to complete the
transaction.

B5.1.3 Read transaction with DCT

For Read transactions with snoops and data from other Request Node caches, Direct Cache Transfer (DCT) is
recommended.
B5.1.3.1 DCT from cache line in UC state
Figure B5.3 shows an example flow for a DCT transaction. The Requester is RN-F0 and the forwarding cache is at
RN-F1.


287

RN-F0
RN-F1
HN-F SN-F
I
UC

 ReadShared
(TxnID = A)


SnpSharedFwd
(FwdNID = RN-F0)
(FwdTxnID = A)
(TxnID = B)


UC->SC
CompData_SC
(HomeNID = HN-F)
SnpResp_SC_Fwded_SC
(TxnID = A)
(TxnID = B)
(DBID = B)


I->SC
 CompAck
(TgtID = HN-F)
(TxnID = B)


Figure B5.3: DCT from cache line in UC state


The steps in the DCT transaction flow in Figure B5.3 are:
1. RN-F0 sends a ReadShared request to HN-F.
2. HN-F sends a SnpSharedFwd, a Forwarding snoop request to RN-F1.
3. RN-F1 forwards CompData_SC response to RN-F0. The TxnID is the same as the original ReadShared
request.
4. RN-F1 also sends a SnpResp_SC_Fwded_SC snoop response to HN-F. RN-F1 cache line state transitions
from UC to SC.
5. After receiving the CompData_SC response, RN-F0 cache line state transitions from I to SC and RN-F0
sends a CompAck response to HN-F.

Note
Steps 3 and 4 in the DCT transaction flow can occur in any order as CompData and SnpResp are sent on
different channels.

B5.1.3.2 Double data return in a DCT transaction
Figure B5.4 shows an example DCT transaction flow that sends the data to HN-F and forwards the data to the
RN-F0.


288

RN-F0
RN-F1
HN-F
SN-F
I
UD

 ReadShared
(TxnID = A)


SnpSharedFwd
(FwdNID = RN-F0)
(FwdTxnID = A)
(TxnID = B)

UD->SC

CompData_SC
(HomeNID = HN-F)
SnpRespData_SC_PD_Fwded_SC
(TxnID = B)
(TxnID = A)
(DBID = B)


I->SC
WriteNoSnp
 CompAck
(TgtID = HN-F)
(TxnID = B)
CompDBIDResp


NCBWrData


NCBWrData = NonCopyBackWriteData


Figure B5.4: Double data return in DCT transaction


The steps in the DCT transaction flow in Figure B5.4 are:
1. RN-F0 sends a ReadShared request to HN-F.
2. HN-F sends a SnpSharedFwd Snoop request to RN-F1.
3. RN-F1 sends CompData_SC response to RN-F0. The TxnID is the same as the original ReadShared request.
RN-F0 cache line transitions from I to SC.
4. RN-F1 also sends a SnpRespData_SC_PD_Fwded_SC snoop response to HN-F that includes a copy of the
cache line and passes responsibility for the Dirty cache line to HN-F. RN-F1 cache line transitions from UD
to SC.
5. HN-F sends a WriteNoSnp request to the SN-F.
6. SN-F responds to the HN-F with CompDBIDResp to request the data.
7. HN-F sends NCBWrData to the SN-F.
8. RN-F0 sends CompAck after receiving the Data response.

289

B5.1.4 Read transaction without DMT or DCT

Figure B5.5 shows an example of the flow without DMT using the ReadNoSnp transaction. In Figure B5.5 , the
ReadNoSnp has the ExpCompAck set in the original request.
The request does not generate any snoops and receives the data from a response to a memory read by the HN-F.


RN-F1
HN-F
RN-F0
SN-F
I

 ReadNoSnp 
(ExpCompAck==1)


ReadNoSnp


CompData_I


CompData_I


I->I
 CompAck 


Figure B5.5: ReadNoSnp transaction flow


The steps in the ReadNoSnp transaction flow in Figure B5.5 are:
1. RN-F0 issues a ReadNoSnp transaction, with ExpCompAck set to 1.
2. HN-F receives and allocates the request.

Note
HN-F does not send snoops as the request is recognized as a Non-snoopable request type.


290


3. HN-F sends a ReadNoSnp to SN-F.
4. SN-F returns CompData_I to HN-F.
5. HN-F in turn returns the data to RN-F0.

Note
If ExpCompAck is 0 in the original ReadNoSnp request, the HN-F could have deallocated the request
at this point.

6. RN-F0 deallocates the request and sends CompAck towards the HN-F.
7. HN-F receives the CompAck response and deallocates the request.

B5.1.5 Read transaction with snoop response with partial data and no memory update

An example of this type of flow is a ReadUnique transaction.
Figure B5.6 shows the transaction flow.

RN-F0
RN-F1
RN-F2
HN-F
SN-F
I
UDP
I

 ReadUnique 


ReadNoSnp

SnpUnique
SnpUnique

UDP->I
SnpRespDataPtl_I_PD
SnpResp_I
CompData_I


Merge 
data
CompData_UD_PD


I->UD

 CompAck 


Figure B5.6: ReadUnique with partial data snoop response


The steps in the ReadUnique with partial data snoop response transaction flow in Figure B5.6 are:
1. RN-F0 sends ReadUnique request to HN-F.
2. HN-F sends ReadNoSnp request to SN-F and SnpUnique requests to RN-F1 and RN-F2.


291

3. RN-F1 transitions the cache line from UDP to I and returns SnpRespDataPtl_I_PD to HN-F. RN-F2 returns
SnpResp_I to the HN-F. Meanwhile, the SN-F returns CompData response to HN-F. HN-F merges the data
returned from the SN-F with the partial data received from the RN-F1.
4. HN-F sends CompData_UD_PD to RN-F0. RN-F0 cache line state transitions from I to UD.
5. RN-F0 issues CompAck response to the HN-F to indicate transaction completion.

B5.1.6 Read transaction with snoop response with partial data and memory update

An example of this type of flow is a ReadClean transaction.
Figure B5.7 shows the transaction flow.

RN-F0
RN-F1
RN-F2
HN-F
SN-F
I
UDP
I

 ReadClean 


ReadNoSnp
SnpClean

SnpClean
UDP->I
SnpResp_I


CompData_I
SnpRespDataPtl_I_PD


WriteNoSnp
CompData_UC
Merge 
data
I->UC

 CompAck 

CompDBIDResp


 NCBWrData 


NCBWrData = NonCopyBackWriteData

Figure B5.7: ReadClean with partial data snoop response


The steps in the ReadClean with partial data snoop response transaction flow in Figure B5.7 are:
1. RN-F0 sends ReadClean request to HN-F.
2. HN-F sends ReadNoSnp request to SN-F and SnpClean requests to RN-F1 and RN-F2. RN-F1 cache line
state transitions from UDP to I.


292

3. RN-F1 returns SnpRespDataPtl_I_PD and RN-F2 returns SnpResp_I to the HN-F. Meanwhile, the SN-F
returns CompData_I response to HN-F. This merges the data.
4. HN-F sends CompData_UC to RN-F0 and WriteNoSnp to SN-F. RN-F0 cache line state transitions from I to
UC.
5. RN-F0 issues CompAck response to the HN-F to indicate transaction completion.
6. SN-F issues CompDBIDResp to HN-F.
7. HN-F sends NCBWrData to SN-F.

B5.1.7 ReadOnce* and ReadNoSnp with early Home deallocation

Figure B5.8 shows the optimized flow for an unordered ReadOnce request.

RN-F0 RN-F1
HN-F
SN-F
I

ReadOnce
(ExpCompAck = 0)
(Order[1:0] = 0b00)
ReadNoSnp
(Order[1:0] = 0b01)

ReadReceipt


CompData_UC
I


Figure B5.8: DMT optimization for an unordered ReadOnce


The steps in the optimized ReadOnce transaction flow in Figure B5.8 are:
1. RN-F0 sends an unordered ReadOnce request to HN-F with Order [1:0] 0 set b00 to.
2. HN-F sends a DMT ReadNoSnp request to SN-F with the Order [1:0] 0 set b01 to.
3. SN-F sends ReadReceipt to Home.
4. HN-F deallocates the request after receiving the ReadReceipt response.
5. SN-F sends CompData_UC directly to RN-F0.

Note
Use of a ReadNoSnp transaction from Home to Subordinate, in the case where CompAck is not required,
avoids the need to send a RespSepData response from Home to Requester.

B5.1.8 ReadNoSnp transaction with DMT and separate Non-data and Data-only response

Figure B5.9 shows an example DMT transaction flow with separate Non-data and Data-only response.


293

In this example, there is no ordering requirement and HN-F can deallocate the request once it receives
ReadReceipt, without waiting for CompAck from the RN-F.


RN-F
HN-F
SN-F

ReadNoSnp
(ExpCompAck = 1)
(Order[1:0] = 0b00)

ReadNoSnpSep

RespSepData
ReadReceipt


CompAck
DataSepResp


Figure B5.9: DMT Read transaction example with separate Non-data and Data-only


The steps in the ReadNoSnp transaction in Figure B5.9 are:
1. RN-F sends an unordered ReadNoSnp request to HN-F.
2. HN-F sends a ReadNoSnpSep request to SN-F.
3. HN-F sends a RespSepData response to RN-F.
4. SN-F sends a ReadReceipt to HN-F.
5. RN-F sends CompAck after receiving RespSepData.
6. SN-F sends DataSepResp to RN-F returning the read data.

B5.1.9 ReadNoSnp transaction with DMT with ordering and separate Non-data and Data-only

Figure B5.10 shows an example DMT transaction flow with ordering and separate Non-data and Data-only.
ReadNoSnp with non-zero Order field in Figure B5.10 requires that:
• Next ordered request can be sent only after receiving of RespSepData.
• RN-F must wait for RespSepData and at least one packet of DataSepResp before sending CompAck.
• HN-F must not send next ordered request to SN-F until receiving CompAck.


294

RN-F
HN-F
SN-F

ReadNoSnp
(ExpCompAck = 1)
(Order[1:0] = 0b10)
ReadNoSnpSep
(Order[1:0] = 0b01)
RespSepData

ReadReceipt

DataSepResp


CompAck


Figure B5.10: DMT Read transaction example with ordering and separate Non-data and Data-only


The steps in the Read transaction with ordering and separate Non-data and Data-only in Figure B5.10 are as
follows:
1. RN-F sends ReadNoSnp to HN-F, with ExpCompAck set to 1. Order [1:0] is 0 b10 set .to
2. HN-F sends ReadNoSnpSep to SN-F with Order [1:0] set 0b01 to .
3. HN-F returns RespSepData to RN-F.
4. SN-F returns ReadReceipt to HN-F.
5. SN-F sends DataSepResp to RN-F directly.
6. RN-F issues CompAck to HN-F.


295