5. RN-F0 issues CompAck response to the HN-F to indicate transaction completion.

B5.2.2
 with memory update
 Dataless transaction

An example of this type of flow is a CleanUnique transaction.


RN-F1
RN-F2
SN-F

Figure B5.12 shows the transaction flow.

RN-F0
HN-F
SC
SD
I

 CleanUnique 


SnpCleanInvalid
SnpCleanInvalid

SD->I
SnpRespData_I_PD


SnpResp_I
WriteNoSnp


CompDBIDResp

Comp_UC
 NCBWrData


SC->UC

 CompAck 


NCBWrData = NonCopyBackWriteData

 B5.12: CleanUnique with memory update
Figure


The steps in the CleanUnique with memory update transaction flow in Figure B5.12 are:
1. RN-F0 sends CleanUnique request to HN-F.
2. HN-F sends SnpCleanInvalid requests to RN-F1 and RN-F2. RN-F1 cache line state transitions from SD to I.
3. RN-F1 returns SnpRespData_I_PD to HN-F. HN-F sends WriteNoSnp to SN-F.


297


4. RN-F2 returns SnpResp_I to the HN-F. HN-F can now send Comp_UC to RN-F0. RN-F0 cache line state
transitions from SC to UC. Meanwhile, SN-F returns CompDBIDResp to HN-F. HN-F subsequently sends
NCBWrData to SN-F.

5. RN-F0 issues CompAck response to the HN-F to indicate transaction completion.

B5.2.3 Persistent CMO with snoop and separate Comp and Persist

In this example of CleanSharedPersistSep transaction flow, Pointthe of Persistence(PoP) is at the SN-F.
Figure B5.13 shows the transaction flow.

RN-F0 RN-F1 SN-F HN-F
SC SC
CleanSharedPersistSep
                                        SnpCleanShared
                                        SnpResp_SC
                                        CleanSharedPersistSep
Comp_SC
                                        Comp
                                        Persist
                                        Figure B5.13: CleanSharedPersistSep transaction flow
The steps in the CleanSharedPersistSep transaction flow in Figure B5.13 are:
1. RN-F0 sends CleanSharedPersistSep request to HN-F.
2. HN-F sends SnpCleanShared request to RN-F1.
3. RN-F1 sends SnpResp_SC to HN-F.
4. HN-F sends Comp_SC to RN-F0.
298

5. HN-F sends CleanSharedPersistSep to SN-F after completing the writing back of all snooped Dirty data, if
any.


B5.2.4 Evict


6. SN-F returns Comp response to HN-F. SN-F directly sends Persist response to RN-F0 to indicate the request
has reached PoP and data from any prior writes to the same location is pushed to PoP.

 transaction

Figure B5.14 shows the Evict transaction flow.

Note
The Evict request is a hint. A Comp response can be given by HN-F without updating the Snoop Filter or


RN-F
HN-F
SN-F


Snoop Directory.


UC


UC->I
Evict

Update
Snoop Filter or
Snoop Directory 


Comp_I


Figure B5.14: Evict transaction flow


The steps in the Evict transaction flow in Figure B5.14 are:
1. RN-F0 cache line state transitions from UC to I and sends Evict request to HN-F. HN-F receives and
allocates the request.
2. HN-F returns Comp_I response and deallocates the request. RN-F0 deallocates the request.

Note
The cache state at the Requester must change to Invalid before the Evict message is sent.


299