Figure B5.15 shows the flow, the copy of data being transferred is marked in bold.

B5.3.2
 with snoop and separate responses
 Write transaction

An example of this type of flow is a WriteUniquePtl transaction.


RN-F1
RN-F2
HN-F
SN-F


Figure B5.16 shows the transaction flow.


RN-F0
I
UD
I

 WriteUniquePtl 


SnpCleanInvalid
SnpCleanInvalid
DBIDResp

UD->I

SnpRespData_I_PD

SnpResp_I
NCBWrData
Merge
data

WriteNoSnp
 Comp 


CompDBIDResp


NCBWrData


NCBWrData = NonCopyBackWriteData

Figure B5.16: WriteUniquePtl with snoop


The steps in the WriteUniquePtl with snoop transaction flow in Figure B5.16 are:
1. RN-F0 sends WriteUniquePtl request to HN-F.
2. HN-F sends SnpCleanInvalid requests to RN-F1 and RN-F2. HN-F also returns DBIDResp to RN-F0.
RN-F2 cache line state transitions from UD to I.
3. RN-F1 sends SnpResp_I and RN-F2 sends SnpRespData_I_PD to HN-F.
4. RN-F0 issues NCBWrData to HN-F. HN-F merges the write data with the dirty line and sends WriteNoSnp
to SN-F.
5. HN-F sends Comp response to RN-F0.
6. SN-F returns CompDBIDResp to HN-F.

301

7. HN-F sends NCBWrData to SN-F.

B5.3.3 CopyBack Write transaction to memory

An example of this type of flow is a WriteBackFull transaction.
Figure B5.17 shows the transaction flow.


SN-F
RN-F0
RN-F1
RN-F2
HN-F
UD
I
I


 WriteBackFull 


 CompDBIDResp 


UD->I


 CBWrData_UD_PD 


WriteNoSnp


CompDBIDRresp


 NCBWrData


CBWrData = CopyBackWriteData
NCBWrData = NonCopyBackWriteData

Figure B5.17: WriteBackFull transaction flow


302

The steps in the WriteBackFull transaction flow in Figure B5.17 are:
1. RN-F0 sends WriteBackFull request to HN-F.
2. HN-F returns CompDBIDResp to RN-F0. RN-F0 cache line state transitions from UD to I.
3. RN-F0 sends CBWrData_UD_PD to HN-F. HN-F sends WriteNoSnp to SN-F.
4. SN-F returns CompDBIDResp to HN-F.
5. HN-F sends NCBWrData to SN-F.


303