Chapter B5. Interconnect
B5.4. Atomic


 Atomic transaction without snoops and with data return


The steps in Figure B5.18 are:
1. RN-F0 sends an Atomic transaction to HN-F.
2. After receiving the Atomic request, HN-F:
• Sends DBIDResp to RN-F0 to obtain the Atomic transaction data.
• Sends SnpUnique Snoop request to other RN-F nodes after determining that snoops are required.
• HN-F is permitted, but not required, to send a speculative ReadNoSnp to SN-F.
3. RN-F2 has the cache line in UD state and responds by sending data and invalidating its own cached copy.
• The response is SnpRespData_I_PD.
• This data is marked as (InitialData) in Figure B5.18 to be distinguishable from the data sent by the Requester
and the data written to SN-F after the atomic operation is executed.
• HN-F also receives a second Snoop response, SnpResp_I, from RN-F1.
4. After receiving all Snoop responses, HN-F sends CompData_I to the Requester.
• The data sent with Comp is the initial copy of the data.
• This data must not be cached in a coherent state at RN-F0.
5. In response to the DBIDResp sent previously, HN-F receives the NonCopyBackWriteData_I response from
the Requester.
• This data is marked as (TxnData) in Figure B5.18 to be distinguishable from the data sent by RN-F2 in
response to the Snoop request from HN-F.
6. Once HN-F receives the NonCopyBackWriteData_I response from the Requester, and the Snoop response
with data from RN-F2, the atomic operation is executed.
• The resulting value after atomic operation execution, marked as (NewData) in Figure B5.18 , is written to
SN-F.
7. In this example, the read data received due to the speculative read is discarded by HN-F.

Note
In Figure B5.18 , the CompData_I response from HN-F can be sent when all Snoop responses are received.
Alternatively, to aid error reporting, CompData_I can be delayed until NonCopyBackWriteData is received
from the Requester and the atomic operation is executed.

B5.4.1.2
Figure B5.19 shows the atomic operation executed at the Home Node.


ARM IHI 0050
305

RN-F0
RN-F1
RN-F2
HN
SN
I
I
I

AtomicLoad
AtomicSwap
AtomicCompare


ReadNoSnp

RespData_
DBIDResp
(InitialData)


NCBWrData
(TxnData)
Executes
Atomic operation

CompData_I
(InitialData)
WriteNoSnp


CompDBIDResp

NCBWrData
(NewData)

NCBWrData = NonCopyBackWriteData

Figure B5.19: AtomicLoad, AtomicSwap, or AtomicCompare executed at Home Node


The steps in the Atomic transaction executed at the Home Node transaction flow in Figure B5.19 are:
1. RN-F0 sends Atomic transaction request to HN.
2. HN returns DBIDResp to RN-F0.
3. HN sends ReadNoSnp request to SN. Meanwhile, RN sends NCBWrData (TxnData) to HN.
4. SN returns RespData_I (InitialData) to HN.
5. HN returns CompData_I (InitialData).
6. HN executes the Atomic operation and sends WriteNoSnp request to SN.
7. SN returns CompDBIDResp to HN.
8. HN sends the result of the atomic operation to SN, marked as (NewData).

B5.4.2 Atomic transaction without data return

This flow is applicable to AtomicStore transactions.
B5.4.2.1 Atomic transaction with snoops and without data return
Figure B5.20 shows the atomic operation executed at HN-F. The flow is similar to the Atomic transaction with
snoop and with data return, except that the Comp response to RN-F0 does not include data.


306

HN-F
RN-F0
RN-F1
RN-F2
SN-F
I
UD
I

AtomicStore


SnpUnique
SnpUnique
DBIDResp
UD->I
SnpRespData_I_PD
SnpResp_I
(InitialData)
NCBWrData
(TxnData)
Executes
Atomic operation

WriteNoSnp
Comp

CompDBIDResp

NCBWrData
(NewData)

NCBWrData = NonCopyBackWriteData

Figure B5.20: AtomicStore executed at HN-F


The steps in the AtomicStore transaction executed at HN in Figure B5.20 are:
1. RN-F0 sends AtomicStore request to the HN-F.
2. HN-F issues DBIDResp to the Requester, RN-F0, and SnpUnique requests to RN-F1 and RN-F2.
3. RN-F1 returns SnpResp_I response to the HN-F. RN-F2 has the cache line in UD state and returns a
SnpRespData_I_PD (InitialData) response. This invalidates the cached copy in RN-F2.
4. RN-F0 sends the write data (TxnData) to the HN-F. The HN-F executes the AtomicStore operation locally.
5. HN-F issues a WriteNoSnp request to the SN-F.
6. SN-F returns CompDBIDResp to the Home.
7. HN-F sends the result of the atomic operation to the SN-F, marked as (NewData).
B5.4.2.2 Atomic transaction without snoops and without data return
Figure B5.21 shows the atomic operation executed at the Home Node. The flow is similar to the Atomic
transaction without snoop and with data return except that the Comp response to the Request Node does not
include data.


307

RN
RN-F1
RN-F2
HN
SN
I
I
I

AtomicStore


ReadNoSnp
DBIDResp


Comp
RespData_I
(InitialData)
NCBWrData
(TxnData)

Executes
Atomic operation


WriteNoSnp


CompDBIDResp

NCBWrData
(NewData)

NCBWrData = NonCopyBackWriteData

Figure B5.21: AtomicStore executed at Home Node


Note
In Figure B5.21 , the read from the Subordinate Node is required to obtain the InitialData and is not
speculative.
The Comp response from the Home Node can be combined with the DBIDResp response.

The steps in the AtomicStore transaction executed at the Home Node in Figure B5.21 are:
1. RN sends AtomicStore request to the HN.
2. HN returns DBIDResp response to RN, indicating the RN can send the write data to the HN.
3. HN sends Comp response to RN and sends ReadNoSnp request to the SN.
4. SN returns RespData_I to the HN.
5. Once the HN has the write data from the RN, the atomic operation is executed and WriteNoSnp is sent to SN.
6. SN returns CompDBIDResp to the HN.
7. HN sends the result of the atomic operation to the SN, marked as NewData.

B5.4.3 Atomic operation executed at the Subordinate Node

Figure B5.22 shows an example Atomic transaction flow where the SN-F is executing the atomic operation.


308

RN-F0
RN-F1 RN-F2
HN-F
SN-F
I
I
UD
AtomicStore
(Normal, Snoopable)


DBIDResp
SnpUnique
SnpUnique
UD->I
SnpRespData_I_PD
(InitialData)

NCBWrData
SnpResp_I
(TxnData)


WriteNoSnp

Comp
CompDBIDResp
NCBWrData
(InitialData)
AtomicStore


DBIDResp
NCBWrData
(TxnData)

Comp


NCBWrData = NonCopyBackWriteData

Figure B5.22: AtomicStore executed at SN-F


The steps in the AtomicStore transaction executed at SN-F in Figure B5.22 are:
1. RN-F0 sends an AtomicStore transaction to HN-F.
• The Atomic request is to a Snoopable address location.
2. After receiving the Atomic request, HN-F:
• Sends DBIDResp to RN-F0 to obtain the Atomic transaction data.
• Sends a SnpUnique to other RN-F nodes after determining that snoops are required.
3. RN-F2 has the cache line in UD state and responds by sending data and invalidating its own cached copy.
• The response is SnpRespData_I_PD.
• This data is marked as (InitialData) in Figure B5.22 to be distinguishable from the data sent by the Requester
and the data written to SN-F to execute the atomic operation.
• HN-F also receives a second Snoop response, SnpResp_I, from the other snooped RN-F.


309

4. HN-F writes the received data to SN-F using a WriteNoSnp transaction.
5. In response to the DBIDResp sent previously, HN-F receives the NonCopyBackWriteData response from the
Requester.
6. HN-F after sending the Snoop response data to SN-F, sends an AtomicStore transaction request to SN-F, and
executes the sequence of messages required to complete the Atomic transaction.
7. The HN-F deallocates the request once the Comp response is sent to the Requester and the Comp response
for the Atomic transaction is received from SN-F.
• The Comp response from HN-F can be sent when all the Snoop responses are received.


310