Stash request


4. HN-F treats the Read request from RN-F1 as a ReadUnique , and sends a combined CompData to RN-F1.
CompData response includes the data written by the Request Node.
5. RN-F1 sends CompAck to HN-F to complete the Read transaction.

B5.5.2 Independent

Figure B5.24 shows an example StashOnce with Data Pull transaction flow.

RN RN-F1 HN-F SN-F
I
                      StashOnceShared
                      (StashNID = RN-F1)
                                                                                     ReadNoSnp
                      SnpStashShared
                      SnpResp_I_Read
                      Comp
                                                                                     CompData_I
                      CompData_UC
I->UC
                      CompAck
                      Figure B5.24: StashOnceShared with Data
The steps in Figure B5.24 are:
1. The Request Node sends a StashOnceShared request to HN-F with the Stash target identified as
2. HN-F sends a Comp response after establishing processing order for the received request that is
the request is processed before a request to the same address received later from any Requester.
3. HN-F sends a SnpStashShared snoop to RN-F1, and a ReadNoSnp request to SN-F to fetch data.
4. RN-F1 sends SnpResp_I_Read response to HN-F.
5. HN-F treats the Read request from RN-F1 as a ReadNotSharedDirty , and sends a combined CompData
RN-F1.
6. RN-F1 sends CompAck to HN-F to complete the Read transaction.
1. The Request Node sends a StashOnceShared request to HN-F with the Stash target identified as RN-F1.
2. HN-F sends a Comp response after establishing processing order for the received request that is guaranteeing


5. HN-F treats the Read request from RN-F1 as a ReadNotSharedDirty , and sends a combined CompData to


312