• The SnpShared transaction ignores the hazard and reads the cache line data.
• The cache line state is changed from UD to SC.
2. At Time D:
• The CompDBIDResp for the CopyBack is sent to RN-F0.
• RN-F0 sends back a CopyBackWriteData_SC response.
• The cache line state is changed from SC to I.
The data is clean for coherence and is not required to be sent to the interconnect for correct functionality. However,
the protocol requires the CopyBack flow to be consistent irrespective of a snoop hazard. The cache line state in the
WriteData response is SC because that is the state of the cache line when the WriteData response is sent.

Note
The response to a Snoop request that hazards with an outstanding Evict must be SnpResp_I.
The only response that can be received for a CopyBack request, while a Snoop response to a Snoop request
to the same address is pending, is a RetryAck. This includes data, if applicable.

Figure B5.26 shows a further example of a Snoop request hazarding with an outstanding CopyBack request. In
this example, the Snoop request is a SnpOnce request generated as a result of a ReadOnce request from RN-F1.
The SnpOnce request receives a copy of the data with the Snoop response but does not change the cache line state.
In this case, the final data response from RN-F0 indicates that the data is Dirty and that HN-F must write the data
back to memory.


314

RN-F0
RN-F1
HN-F
SN-F
UD
I

ReadOnce

WriteBack
SnpOnce


UD->UD

Hazard detected
SnpRespData_UD
WriteBack progress 
Hazard detected 
blocked
but ignored


CompData_I


CompAck
ReadOnce
does not
write back
Data


WriteBack progress
CompDBIDResp
un-blocked
UD->I
CopyBackWriteData_ 
UD_PD
(Present state = UD, 
Next state[implied] = I)
CopyBack
WriteNoSnp
Completed with a 
WriteData response


Figure B5.26: CopyBack-Snoop hazard with no cache state change example


B5.6.2 Request

If more than one request to the same cache line is ready to be processed at the HN-F, the HN-F can select the next
request in any order. The exception for this is when the two requests have an ordering requirement and are from
the same source, therefore the order of processing must match the order of arrival.
Figure B5.27 shows an example where a ReadShared and a ReadUnique , for the same cache line, arrive at the
HN-F at approximately the same time.


315

RN-F0
RN-F1
RN-F2
HN-F
SN-F
SC
I
I
Req1: ReadShared
Req2: ReadUnique
ReadNoSnp
A
Hazard detected
Req2 progress 
SnpShared
SnpShared
blocked
SnpResp_SC
SnpResp_I


CompData_I


CompData_SC
I->SC
CompAck
Req2 progress
un-blocked
B
SnpUnique
ReadNoSnp
SnpUnique

SC->I
SnpResp_I
SnpResp_I
CompData_I


CompData_UC
SC->UC

CompAck


Figure B5.27: Read-Read request hazard example


The steps required to resolve this hazard in Figure B5.27 are:
1. At Time A:
• ReadUnique from RN-F0 arrives and hazards a ReadShared request from RN-F2 for which the HN-F has
already sent Snoop requests.
• ReadUnique progress is blocked at the HN-F.
2. At Time B:
• The HN-F has completed the ReadShared transaction request from RN-F2.
• The ReadShared transaction is considered to be complete and the HN-F unblocks the ReadUnique
transaction request from RN-F0.
Except for ReadNoSnp , the flows are similar if the two transactions, that Figure B5.27 shows, are replaced by any
Read request type, or Dataless request type:


316

• A Read transaction request without DMT or DCT or separate Comp and data response is completed at the
HN-F when both of the following are true:
– All CompData is sent and, if applicable, CompAck is received. A CompAck is only required for
transactions with ExpCompAck = 1 in the original request message.
– A memory update is completed if required.

B5.6.3 Read or Dataless request

A hazard between a Read or Dataless request and a CopyBack request at the HN-F is treated similarly to the
Read-Read hazard described in B5.6.2 Request. See also B5.6.1 Snoop request.
Figure B5.28 shows the case where a ReadShared and a WriteBack , for the same cache line, arrive at the HN-F at
approximately the same time.


RN-F0
RN-F1
RN-F2
HN-F
SN-F
UD
I
I
Req1: ReadShared
Req2: WriteBack
A
SnpShared
Hazard detected
Req2 progress 
UD->SC
blocked
SnpRespData_SC_PD


CompData_SC
WriteNoSnp
I->SC
CompAck
CompDBIDResp


B
CompDBIDResp
NCBWRData
SC->I
CopyBackWriteData_SC
Req2 progress
(Present state = SC,
un-blocked
Next state[implied] = I)


NCBWrData = NonCopyBackWriteData

Figure B5.28: Read - CopyBack or Dataless - CopyBack hazard example


The steps required to resolve this hazard in Figure B5.28 are:
1. At Time A:
• A WriteBack encounters a hazarding condition at the HN-F. The reason for the hazard is a ReadShared
transaction that is already in progress.


317

• The hazard detection results in the WriteBack being blocked.
• The ReadShared transaction receives data with the snoop response and must update memory in addition to
sending the data to the Requester.
2. At Time B:
• The WriteBack is unblocked because the HN-F has sent the data response to the Requester and a WriteData
response to memory for the ReadShared transaction.


B5.6.4 Race


If the ReadShared request reaches the HN-F, after the HN-F has started processing the WriteBack request, the
ReadShared request is blocked until completion of the WriteBack request.
A CopyBack request is completed at HN-F when both of the following are true:
• A data message corresponding to the CopyBack request is received.
• A memory update is completed if necessary.

 hazard

After completion, a request could silently evict the cache line from the cache and generate another request to the
same address. For example:
1. The regenerated request reaches the HN-F before the CompAck response associated with the earlier request.
2. The HN-F detects an address hazard and blocks the processing of the new request until the CompAck
response is received.
In such a scenario, on arrival at HN-F, the CompAck response deallocates the previous request from the HN-F and
unblocks the processing of the new request.


318

Chapter B6
Exclusive accesses


This chapter describes the mechanisms that the architecture includes to support Exclusive accesses. It contains the
following sections:
• B6.1 Overview
• B6.2 Exclusive monitors
• B6.3 Exclusive transactions


319