successful, but it is not required. At that point, all other LPs must subsequently register the
start of their exclusive sequence for their Exclusive Store transaction to be successful.
When an Exclusive Store transaction from one LP passes and the registered attempts of
all other LPs is reset, the other LPs can only register a new exclusive sequence after the


B6.2.2 Additional


CompAck response is observed for the Exclusive Store transaction that passed.

Note
An LP and PoC monitor pair are required to support an Exclusive access to a Snoopable memory location.

 address comparison

The PoC monitor can be enhanced to include some address comparison. A full address comparison is not required
and it is permitted to only record a subset of address bits. This approach reduces the chances of an Exclusive Store

IMPLEMENTATION is
transaction failing because of an Exclusive Store transaction from another LP to a different address location. The
number of bits of address comparison used
 SPECIFIC .
Where an additional address comparison monitor is used, the monitored address bits are recorded at the start of an
exclusive sequence on either a Load Exclusive or Store Exclusive transaction. The monitor is reset by a successful
Exclusive Store transaction from another LP to a matching address.
A monitor that includes an additional address comparison must still include a minimum monitor of a single bit for
every Exclusive-capable LP to ensure forward progress.
An Exclusive Store transaction is permitted to progress if one of the following occurs:
• The address monitor has registered an exclusive sequence for a matching address from the same LP and has
not been reset by an Exclusive Store transaction from a different LP with a matching address.
• The minimum single-bit monitor has been set by an exclusive sequence from the same LP and it has not been
reset by an Exclusive Store transaction from a different LP to any address.

Note


B6.2.3 Alternatives


The term matching address is used to describe where a monitor only records a subset of address bits. The
address bits that are recorded are identical, but the address bits that are not recorded can be different.
An implementation does not require an address monitor for each Exclusive-capable LP. Because the address
monitor provides a performance enhancement, it is acceptable to have fewer address monitors and for the
use of these to be IMPLEMENTATION SPECIFIC . For example, address monitors can be used on a first-come
first-served basis, or by allocation to particular Logical Processors. Alternatively, a more complex algorithm
could be implemented.
Additional PoC exclusive monitor functionality can be provided to prevent interference, or denial of service,
caused by one agent in the system issuing many Exclusive access transactions. It is recommended that the
progress on Exclusive requests from one PAS is independent of progress on Exclusive requests from any
other PAS.

 to a PoC monitor

An HN-F is permitted to use the following mechanisms instead of a PoC monitor to determine the results of an
Exclusive access:
• A precise Snoop Filter, to track if the Requester at the time of Exclusive Store processing retains a copy of
the cache line.


0050


• Snooping by the Home Node, to determine if the Requester still holds a copy of the cache line.


322

Chapter B6. Exclusive
B6.2. Exclusive

B6.2.4 Non-snoopable memory location

For a Non-snoopable memory location, a single monitor is used:
System monitor The System monitor tracks Exclusive accesses to a Non-snoopable region. This monitor type is
set by a ReadNoSnp (Excl) transaction and reset by an update to the location by another LP.
System monitors can be placed at a PoS or at endpoint devices. Potentially, the number of
devices in the system is much larger than the number of PoS and placing System monitors at a
PoS can:
– Reduce System monitor duplication.
– Reduce the time taken for the system to detect failure of an Exclusive access.
A System monitor must be located to observe all transactions to the monitored location.


ARM IHI 0050
323