• WriteNoSnpPtl
The RespErr field in the response is used for this purpose. See B13.10.45 Response Error, RespErr . The RespErr
field value of0b01, Exclusive Okay, indicates a pass and a RespErr field value 0b00 of, Normal Okay, indicates
an Exclusive access failure.
The Exclusive Okay response must only be given for a transaction that has the Excl attribute set.
Not all memory locations are required to support Exclusive accesses. An Exclusive Load transaction to a location
that does not support Exclusive accesses must not be given an Exclusive Okay response.
It is IMPLEMENTATION DEFINED whether or not Exclusive Store transaction to a location that does not support
Exclusive accesses updates the location.
It is recommended that an Exclusive Store transaction is not performed to a location that does not support
Exclusive accesses.
ReadPreferUnique and MakeReadUnique do not use RespErr to determine the pass or fail of an Exclusive
operation. An Exclusive MakeReadUnique response with Shared cache state indicates the failure of an Exclusive
access. When the response cache state is Unique, the Requester must use its Local Monitor state to determine if
the Exclusive access is a pass.
Table B6.2 shows the Snoopable attributes of the request, the relevant monitor type and possible reasons for fail
conditions and response requirements.

Table B6.2: Responses to an Exclusive access request

Request type Snoopable
 Monitor type Fail condition Response

ReadNoSnp(Excl) No System Target does not support Target must return a data
Exclusive accesses
response

WriteNoSnp(Excl) No System Address content modified The Requester must still
complete the write flow by
sending the Data message


ReadClean(Excl) Yes LP, PoC Target does not support Target must return a data
ReadNotSharedDirty(Excl)
Exclusive accesses
response
ReadShared(Excl)

ReadPreferUnique Yes LP, optional None
If a PoC monitor is available,
PoC
the appropriate monitor bit
must be set

CleanUnique(Excl) Yes LP, PoC Address content modified Target must return a Comp
response

Target does not support
Exclusive accesses

Address not present due to
monitor overflow

Target does not support
Exclusive accesses

Address not present due to
monitor overflow
Continued on next page


325

Table B6.2 –Continued from previous page

Request type Snoopable
 Monitor type Fail condition Response

MakeReadUnique(Excl) Yes LP, optional Address content modified Target uses PoC monitor,
PoC
Precise snoop filter, or
SnpQuery to determine
response


B6.3.1.1 MakeReadUnique(Excl)


 of an Exclusive access


When performing an Exclusive Store operation, MakeReadUnique (Excl) is the preferred alternative over the
CleanUnique(Excl) request.
The permitted responses to the MakeReadUnique (Excl) request are included in Table B4.39 and Table B4.40 .
B6.3.1.1.1 Result
The result of an Exclusive access is determined in the following manner:
• RespErr value of Exclusive Okay is not permitted in response to a MakeReadUnique (Excl).
• The Requester must use its local exclusive monitor along with the cache state in the response to determine
the success of an Exclusive Store.
– When the cache state in the response is Shared, the Requester must assume that the Exclusive access has


 behavior


failed.
– When the cache state in the response is Unique, the Requester must use its own local monitor to
determine the result of the Exclusive access.
B6.3.1.1.2 Home
After checking the PoC monitor, if the Home determines the Exclusive Store passes, all other cached copies of the
cache line must be invalidated. Subsequently, the Home sends a Comp response with the cache state of Unique to
the Requester. The cache state can include [_PD] if a cached copy in SD state was invalidated and the
responsibility of writing back of the Dirty data is being passed to the Requester.
To avoid an Exclusive access livelock, the monitor must be capable of simultaneously tracking each individual LP
Exclusive thread in the system.
A Home is permitted to use a precise Snoop Filter to determine the success or failure of an Exclusive access. If the
Snoop Filter indicates that the Requester has lost the cache line, the Exclusive access is assumed to have failed.
In the absence of precise caching information from the Snoop Filter, the Home can use the SnpQuery snoop to
determine the presence and state of the cache line at the Requester.
When a Home determines that an Exclusive Store transaction has failed, the following rules must be followed:
• If the Requester has lost the cache line, the Home is expected to send SnpPreferUniqueFwd or
SnpPreferUnique to get a copy of the cache line. The Home is permitted to send SnpNotSharedDirty(Fwd),
or SnpClean(Fwd), or SnpShared instead. The snoop must not be SnpSharedFwd nor any Invalidating snoop.
• The sender of the data is permitted to return, as appropriate, a UC or UD state in the response to the
Requester if no other cached copies exist. The Completer must return data with SC state, if other copies exist.
SD state is not permitted in the response to the Requester. This is because the Home cannot determine from
the MakeReadUnique (Excl) request whether the Requester accepts data in SD state.
Data is provided in response to a MakeReadUnique (Excl) transaction when a cache line is lost to a snoop between
the issuing of the MakeReadUnique (Excl) transaction and the point at which the Home actions the transaction or
the Home cannot determine that the data has been retained.


326

Chapter B6. Exclusive
B6.3. Exclusive

B6.3.2 System requirements

A system that implements the CHI protocol is:
• Required to have a starvation prevention mechanism for all exclusive requests, whether using the monitor
mechanism or some other means.


B6.3.3 Exclusive


• Recommended to have a monitor per LP for the efficient handling of Exclusive accesses.


 to Snoopable locations


• Recommended to ensure progress on Exclusive requests from one PAS is independent of progress of
Exclusive requests from any other PAS.

 accesses

This section describes the behavior of an LP when performing Exclusive accesses to a Snoopable address location.
B6.3.3.1 Snoopable Exclusive Load
The LP starts an exclusive sequence with an Exclusive Load. The start of the exclusive sequence must set the LP
exclusive monitor.
An LP wanting to perform an Exclusive access to a Snoopable location could already hold the cache line in its
local cache:
• If the LP holds the cache line in a Unique state, it is permitted, but not recommended, that an Exclusive Load
transaction is performed.
• If the LP holds the cache line in a Shared state, it is permitted, but not required, that an Exclusive Load


 Exclusive Load to Snoopable Exclusive Store


transaction is performed.
• If the LP does not hold a copy of the cache line, it is recommended that the LP uses an Exclusive Load
transaction to obtain the cache line. It is permitted to use ReadClean , ReadShared , ReadNotSharedDirty , or
ReadPreferUnique without the Excl = 1.
B6.3.3.2 Snoopable
Typically, after the execution of an Exclusive Load, an LP calculates a new value to store to the location before
attempting the Exclusive Store.
It is not required that an LP always completes an Exclusive sequence. For example, the value obtained by the
Exclusive Load can indicate that a semaphore is held by another LP and that the value cannot be changed until the
semaphore is released by the other LP. Therefore, a new Exclusive sequence can be started with no attempt to


 Exclusive Store


complete the current Exclusive sequence.
During the time between the Exclusive Load and the Exclusive Store, the LP exclusive monitor must monitor the
location to determine whether another LP could have updated the location.
B6.3.3.3 Snoopable
An LP must not permit an Exclusive Store transaction to be in progress at the same time as any transaction that
registers that it is performing an exclusive sequence. The LP must wait for all messages for any such transaction to
be exchanged, or to receive a RetryAck response, before issuing an Exclusive Store transaction. The transactions
that register that an LP is performing an exclusive sequence are:
• Exclusive Load transactions to any location.
• Exclusive Store transactions to any location.


ARM IHI 0050


When an LP executes an Exclusive Store the following behavior is required:
• If the LP exclusive monitor has been reset the Exclusive Store must fail and the LP must not issue an
Exclusive Store transaction. The LP must restart the exclusive sequence.


327

Chapter B6. Exclusive
B6.3. Exclusive

Note
When the LP monitor has been reset, not issuing a transaction for an Exclusive Store that must eventually
fail avoids unnecessary invalidation of other copies of the cache line.

• If the cache line is held in a Unique state and the LP exclusive monitor is set, the Exclusive Store has passed
and the LP can update the location without issuing a transaction.
• If the cache line is held in a Shared state and the LP exclusive monitor is set, the LP must issue an Exclusive
Store transaction. A CleanUnique or MakeReadUnique transaction must use Excl attribute = 1. The LP
exclusive monitor must continue to operate and check that the cache line is not updated while the
CleanUnique or MakeReadUnique transaction is in progress. An Exclusive CleanUnique transaction
response is handled in the following way. The transaction receives a Normal Okay or an Exclusive Okay
response. If the transaction receives an Exclusive Okay response, this indicates that the transaction has
passed and has completed invalidating all other copies of the cache line. After an exclusive transaction
completes with an Exclusive Okay response, the LP must again check the LP exclusive monitor:
– If the LP exclusive monitor is set, the Exclusive Store has passed and the update is performed.
– If the LP exclusive monitor is not set, an update to the cache line is indicated to have occurred between


Home behavior


the point that the Exclusive Store transaction was issued and the point of completion. The Exclusive
Store must fail and the exclusive sequence must be restarted.
– If the LP has not been able to track the exclusive nature of the cache line, because the cache line has
been evicted, the Exclusive Store must fail and the exclusive sequence must be restarted.
If the Exclusive Store transaction receives a Normal Okay response, this indicates another LP has been permitted
to progress a transaction associated with an Exclusive Store. The transaction associated with the Exclusive Store,
from this LP, has failed and has not propagated to other Logical Processors in the system. When an Exclusive
Store transaction completes with a Normal Okay response, the options are:
• The LP can fail the Exclusive Store and restart the exclusive sequence with or without checking the state of
the cache line when the access completed.
• The LP can check the LP exclusive monitor, and if the LP exclusive monitor has been reset, the LP must fail
the Exclusive Store and restart the exclusive sequence.
• The LP can check the LP exclusive monitor, and if the LP exclusive monitor is set, the LP can repeat the
Exclusive Store transaction.
For handling of an Exclusive MakeReadUnique at the Home Node, see B6.3.1.1.2 .

B6.3.4 Exclusive
 to Non-snoopable locations
 accesses

The following restrictions apply to Exclusive accesses to Non-snoopable locations:
• The address of an Exclusive access must be aligned to the total number of bytes in the transaction.
• The number of bytes to be transferred in an Exclusive access must be a legal data transfer size. This is 1 byte,

UNPREDICTABLE is
.
2 bytes, 4 bytes, 8 bytes, 16 bytes, 32 bytes, or 64 bytes.
Failure to observe these restrictions results in behavior that
If any of the following fields are different between the Exclusive read and Exclusive write, the Exclusive write
could fail, even if the location has not been updated by another agent:
• Addr
• MemAttr


ARM IHI 0050


• SnpAttr
• Size


328
Issue H

• LPID
The minimum number of bytes to be monitored during an exclusive operation is defined by the transaction size.
The System monitor can monitor a larger number of bytes, up to 64 bytes, which is the maximum size of an
Exclusive access. However, this can result in a successful Exclusive access being indicated as failing because a
neighboring byte was updated while the Exclusive access was in progress.
Multiple Exclusive transactions to Non-snoopable memory locations, either read or write, to the same or different
addresses, from the same LP must not be outstanding at the same time.
If the Subordinate Node does not support Exclusive accesses, as indicated by an Exclusive Fail on the Exclusive
ReadNoSnp, the write updates the location if the write is given an Exclusive Fail response.
If the Subordinate Node does support Exclusive accesses, as indicated by an Exclusive Pass on the Exclusive
ReadNoSnp, the write does not update the location if the write is given an Exclusive Fail response.


329

Chapter B7
Cache Stashing


This chapter describes the cache stashing mechanism whereby data that is written from a Request Node can be
installed in a peer cache. It contains the following sections:
• B7.1 Overview
• B7.2 Write with Stash hint
• B7.3 Independent Stash request
• B7.4 Stash target identifiers
• B7.5 Stash messages


330