Table B7.1 –Continued from previous page

Stash request Snoop
 request

a
Possible if Home already has the latest copy of the line.


A Snoopee that receives a Stash Snoop request does one of the following:
• Provides a Snoop response that also acts as a Read request for the associated cache line. Including a Read
request with Snoop response is referred to as a DataPull . Table B7.2 shows the type of Read request that is
implied by a DataPull in the response to each Stash Snoop request.

Table B7.2: Snoop

Snoop request Implied
 Read request

SnpUniqueStash ReadUnique

SnpMakeInvalidStash ReadUnique

SnpStashUnique ReadUnique

SnpStashShared ReadNotSharedDirty

      response so ignoring the cache stash hint.
and SnpRespData responses indicates if DataPull is requested.
      DataPull .
with Stash is optional.
      transaction flow, the stash operation is permitted to

already has the latest copy of the line.
does one of the following:
a Read request for the associated cache line. Including
as a DataPull . Table B7.2 shows the type of Read request
each Stash Snoop request.
             response with Data Pull and implied Read request
• Provides a Snoop response without a DataPull response so ignoring the cache stash hint.
The value of the DataPull field in the SnpResp and SnpRespData responses indicates if DataPull is requested. See
B13.10.35 Data Pull, DataPullfor legal values for DataPull .
The use of DataPull to complete a Snoop request with Stash is optional.
If the Snoopee is not able to support the DataPull transaction flow, the stash operation is permitted to be ignored.


332