issued the original DVMOp . The SnpDVMOp is sent on the Snoop channel, and requires two Snoop requests.


Flow control


The two parts of the SnpDVMOp are labeled by the suffix _P1 and _P2.

Note
Both parts of the message must carry the same TxnID . The Request Node must have resources
available to accept the SnpDVMOp. See B8.2.3 .

5. After completing the required actions, each recipient of the SnpDVMOp sends a single SnpResp response to
the Miscellaneous Node.

Note
Sending of a SnpResp implies that the target Request Node has forwarded the SnpDVMOp to the


 Comp for Non-sync DVMOps


required Request Node structures and has freed up the resources needed to accept another DVM
operation. Sending of a SnpResp does not imply that the requested DVM operation has completed. See
B8.2.2 Sync type DVM transaction flow .

6. After receiving all the SnpResp responses, the Miscellaneous Node sends a Comp response to the requesting
node.
B8.2.1.1 DVM early
The Miscellaneous Node in the interconnect is permitted to send Comp for a Non-sync DVMOp without waiting
to complete the required snooping of Request Nodes. The Miscellaneous Node is required to order the Non-sync
DVMOp against any Sync DVMOp received later from the same source. If a Miscellaneous Node cannot provide
such an ordering guarantee, snooping must be complete before sending a Comp response for a Non-sync DVMOp .
A Miscellaneous Node that is enabled to send early Comp for a Non-sync DVMOp is permitted to
opportunistically combine Comp and DBIDResp responses into a single CompDBIDResp response.

Note


B8.2.2 Sync


Sending of a Comp response early for Non-sync DVMOp reduces round-trip latency for DVMOp


 flow


completion. This enables a greater number of DVMOp transactions to be pipelined from a single source.
Such an early completion also enables a Sync DVMOp , which is waiting for completions of all related
DVMOp transactions sent earlier from the same Request Node.

The Miscellaneous Node must still wait for the Snoop response for a Sync DVMOp to be received before sending
a Comp to the Requester for that Sync DVMOp .

 type DVM transaction

Figure B8.2 shows the flow in a Sync DVM transaction.


342

Requester 0
Requester 1
ICN

RN-F0
Core-1 RN-F1
MN

DVMOp(Sync)
DBIDResp
NonCopyBackWriteData
SnpDVMOp_P1
SnpDVMOp_P2
Snoop sent
to the core

SnpResp only sent
after all DVM related
operations are
complete in the core
SnpResp_I
Comp

RN-F0
Core-1 RN-F1
MN


Figure B8.2: Sync DVM transaction flow


The required steps that Figure B8.2 shows are:
1. RN-F0 sends a DVMOp (Sync) to the Miscellaneous Node.

Note
All previous DVMOp requests whose completion needs to be guaranteed by the DVMOp (Sync) must
have received a Comp response before the Request Node can send a DVMOp (Sync).

2. The Miscellaneous Node accepts the DVMOp (Sync) request and sends a DBIDResp response to the
Requester.
3. The RN-F0 sends a data packet on the data channel with a data size of 8 bytes.
4. The Miscellaneous Node sends the SnpDVMOp to RN-F1. The Miscellaneous Node is permitted, but not
required, to send the SnpDVMOp to the RN that issued the original DVMOp . The SnpDVMOp is sent on the
Snoop channel, and requires two Snoop requests. The two parts of a SnpDVMOp are labeled by the suffix
_P1 and _P2.
5. After completing the DVM Sync operation, RN-F1 sends a SnpResp response to the Miscellaneous Node.

Note
Sending of a SnpResp implies that all DVM-related operations have completed at the Request Node
structures and the target Request Node has freed up the resources needed to accept another
SnpDVMOp.

6. After receiving the SnpResp, the Miscellaneous Node sends a Comp response to RN-F0.


343

Chapter B8. DVM Operations
B8.2. DVM transaction flow

B8.2.3 Flow control

This section describes the flow requirements for DVMOp and SnpDVMOp.
B8.2.3.1 DVMOp
The flow requirements for a DVMOp include:
• A DVMOp can receive a RetryAck response from a Miscellaneous Node.
– A DVMOp that receives a RetryAck response must wait for a PCrdGrant response from the
Miscellaneous Node that has the appropriate PCrdType .
• All previous DVMOp requests whose completion needs to be guaranteed by the DVMOp (Sync) must have
received a Comp response before the Request Node can send the DVMOp (Sync).
• For DVMOp (Non-sync) operations, the interconnect must guarantee forward progress. This requires that
there should be at least one tracker entry in the Miscellaneous Node reserved for DVMOp (Non-Sync).
• It is permitted to overlap a DVMOp (Non-sync) and a DVMOp (Sync) from the same Request Node, if the
DVMOp(Sync) is not required to guarantee completion of the DMVOp(Non-sync).
B8.2.3.2 SnpDVMOp
The flow requirements for a SnpDVMOp include:
• Each SnpDVMOp transaction requires two SnpDVMOp request packets.
– The two SnpDVMOp request packets corresponding to a single transation:

*
Must use the same TxnID .

*
Must use the same SNP channel RP. See B14.2.1.2 Flow control with Resource Planes for more
information.

*
Can be sent or received in any order.


ARM IHI 


– To prevent deadlocks, due to the two-part SnpDVMOp requests that use the Snoop channel, a
SnpDVMOp transaction must only be sent when the receiving Request Node has pre-allocated resources
to accept both parts of the SnpDVMOp transaction.
– A Request Node must provide a response to a SnpDVMOp transaction only after both SnpDVMOp
request packets are received corresponding to that transaction.
– A Request Node must provide a response to a SnpDVMOp only when a further SnpDVMOp from a
Miscellaneous Node can be accepted.
• Each RN-F and RN-D in the system specifies the number of SnpDVMOp transactions it can accept
concurrently.
– Each RN-F and RN-D in the system must be able to accept at least one SnpDVMOp(Non-Sync)
transaction in addition to a SnpDVMOp(Sync) transaction.
– The minimum number of SnpDVMOp transactions that must be accepted concurrently is two. This is
the default number for Request Nodes that do not specify a number.
• A SnpDVMOp(Sync) operation at a Request Node that has issued a StashOnceSep request must wait until all
outstanding StashDone responses are received for StashOnceSep requests that use invalidated page entries.
For SnpDVMOp(Non-sync):
• Multiple SnpDVMOp(Non-sync) transactions can be outstanding from a Miscellaneous Node.
• A Request Node must not depend on the forward progress of any transaction when responding to
SnpDVMOp(Non-Sync).
For SnpDVMOp(Sync):


0050
344

• Only one SnpDVMOp(Sync) can be outstanding from a Miscellaneous Node to a Request Node.
• When responding to a SnpDVMOp(Sync), a Request Node can depend on the forward progress of any
transaction, except for the completion of an outstanding DVMOp (Sync) request.
– The Request Node must complete the SnpDVMOp(Sync) in a timely manner, even if it continues to
receive more DVM invalidation operations.


345