Table B9.1: Error response field encodings

 Name Description
RespErr[1:0]

 Okay. Indicates that either:
– The Normal access was successful. For WriteNoSnpDef ,
RespErr must be used in combination with Resp to
establish the exact response. See Table B4.29 .
– The Exclusive access failed.

0b01 EXOK Exclusive Okay. Indicates that either the read or write portion
            an Exclusive access has been successful.

0b00 OK Normal Okay. Indicates that either:
                 – The Normal access was successful. For WriteNoSnpDef
                 RespErr must be used in combination with Resp to
                 establish the exact response. See Table B4.29 .
                 – The Exclusive access failed.
Exclusive Okay. Indicates that either the read or write portion of
an Exclusive access has been successful.

0b10
DERR Data Error

0b11
NDERR Non-data Error


A single transaction is not permitted to mix OK and EXOK responses.
A transaction with a Data response is required to include NDERR either in none or in all Data packets.
The mixing of OK and DERR responses within a single transaction is permitted.


B9.1.3 Errors


The mixing of EXOK and DERR responses within a single transaction is permitted.


 structure


The mixing of OK and NDERR responses within a single transaction is permitted, which can occur only in
transactions with both Data and Non-data responses.
The mixing of EXOK and NDERR is not permitted.

 and transaction

All transactions must complete in a protocol-compliant manner, even if they include an error response.
Error handling for a transaction that utilizes DMT is the same as the error handling for the same request without
DMT.
Because there is no mechanism to propagate errors on requests or snoops, a request must not use DMT or DCT if
an error is detected at the interconnect.


for more details on the legal Resp field values. In a response with a NDERR indication, the


If the transaction contains data packets, the source of the data packets is required to send the correct number of
packets, but the data values are not required to be valid.
The Resp field gives the cache states associated with a transaction and can be influenced by an error condition. See
B4.5 Response types
cache state encoded in Resp is permitted to be any value, including reserved values.
The Resp field in a response must have the same value for every packet of a Data message regardless of whether or
not there is an error condition.
A Requester that receives a response with a NDERR for a Snoopable request must:
• For an Allocating transaction:
– When the start state is I, the Requester must not allocate the received data.
– If the request was sent from a Non-Invalid state, the Requester must leave the cached copy unchanged.
In both cases, the cache state must not be changed.
– The Allocating transactions are:

*
ReadClean

369

ReadNotSharedDirty
*
ReadShared
*
ReadUnique
*
ReadPreferUnique
*
MakeReadUnique
*
*
CleanUnique

*
MakeUnique
• For a deallocating transaction:
– The Requester must continue as normal, in a protocol-compliant manner.
– The deallocating transactions are:


B9.1.4 Error
 use by transaction type


*
WriteBack

*
WriteEvictFull

*
Evict

*
WriteEvictOrEvict
• For Other transactions that do not change allocation:
– The Requester must not upgrade the cache state.
– The Requester is permitted to downgrade the cache state.
The cache state in a SnpResp message with a NDERR must be I. The Completer must invalidate local cached
copies of the cache line. In addition, when the response to a Forwarding snoop results in a NDERR, the Snoopee
must not forward data to the Requester. As a consequence, if the CompData message has already been sent to the
Requester, the Snoop response to the Home must not include the NDERR.

 response

This section defines the permitted, but not required, use of the error fields for each transaction type.
The tables that follow show the Data and Response packets associated with the following transaction types:
• B9.1.4.1 Read transactions
• B9.1.4.2 Dataless transactions
• B9.1.4.3 Write transactions
• B9.1.4.4 Atomic transactions


0b00 of


• B9.1.4.5 Other transactions
• B9.1.4.6 Cache Stashing transactions
• B9.1.4.7 Snoop transactions
The following keys are used by the tables:
OK The RespErr field must contain the OK RespErr value .
Y This value of RespErr is permitted.
N This value of RespErr is not permitted.
- Data or Response packet is not used for this transaction type.
 transactions
B9.1.4.1 Read
Read transactions can contain multiple CompData data packets.
Read data which is known to be corrupt must have an appropriate Error indication where the error can be Poison ,
DERR, or NDERR.

370

When RespSepData includes a NDERR, all corresponding DataSepResp packets must be marked with NDERR.
In a Data response to a Read request, a NDERR response is only permitted either in none or in all data response
packets.
Table B9.2 shows the legal RespErr field values associated with Data and Response packets for Read transactions.

Table
 response packets for Read
 B9.2: Legal RespErr field values associated with Data and
transactions

Read transaction Associated Data and Response packets CompAck
Read Receipt CompData


ReadNoSnp OK
 OK

OK EXOK DERR NDERR

 Y
 Y Y Y

ReadNoSnpSep OK -
 - -
 - -

ReadOnce
OK Y
 N Y Y OK
ReadOnceCleanInvalid
ReadOnceMakeInvalid

ReadClean -
 Y
 Y Y Y OK
ReadNotSharedDirty
ReadShared

ReadUnique - Y
 N Y Y OK
ReadPreferUnique
a
MakeReadUnique
b

    a
EXOK response is not permitted even when Excl bit in the request is set to 1.
    A response of OK in the returned data response is not to be taken as a failure of ReadPreferUnique .
    Failure of the exclusive sequence is only determined from the corresponding MakeReadUnique Excl or CleanUnique Excl transaction completion.
    b Applicable only when data is returned to the Requester. See Table B9.5 for permitted errors when data is not returned to the Requester.
    B9.3 shows the legal RespErr field values associated with Data-only and Non-data packets for Read
    transactions.
    Table B9.3: Legal RespErr field values associated with Data-only and Non-data packets for
                                                                                                                                                                                      transactions
Excl transaction completion.


for Read


Read transaction Associated Data-only and Non-data packets


 DERR NDERR
DataSepResp RespSepData
OK EXOK DERR NDERR OK EXOK

ReadNoSnp Y N Y Y Y N N Y

ReadNoSnpSep Y N Y Y - - -
 -

ReadOnce
Y N Y Y Y N N Y
ReadOnceCleanInvalid
ReadOnceMakeInvalid

Continued on next page

371

Table B9.3 –Continued from previous page

Read transaction Associated Data-only and Non-data packets
DataSepResp RespSepData
 DERR NDERR
OK EXOK DERR NDERR OK EXOK

ReadClean Y
 N Y Y Y N N Y
ReadNotSharedDirty
ReadShared

ReadUnique Y N Y Y Y N N Y
ReadPreferUnique
a
MakeReadUnique
b

a
A response of OK in the returned data response is not be taken as a failure of ReadPreferUnique .
Failure of the exclusive sequence is only determined from the corresponding MakeReadUnique
Excl transaction completion.
b
Applicable only when data is returned to the Requester. See Table B9.4 for permitted errors when data is not returned to the Requester.


Table B9.4 shows the legal combinations of RespSepData and DataSepResp in relation to their message origins.

according to
Table B9.4:
origins

RespSepData DataSepResp Legal combination when DataSepResp
From Home From Subordinate

OK OK
 Y
 Y
NDERR Y
 Y
DERR Y
 Y

NDERR NDERR
 Y
 -

Dataless transactions
──────── ──────────── ────────── ─────────────────── ────── ────────────── ─────── ─────────────── ────────── ───────
reported for a Dataless transaction when the processing of the transaction by another
data corruption error. This DERR can be indicated back to the originating component, even
does not occur.
shows the Dataless transaction packets legal RespErr field values.

returned data response is not be taken as a failure of ReadPreferUnique .
sequence is only determined from the corresponding MakeReadUnique Excl or CleanUnique Excl transaction completion.
is returned to the Requester. See Table B9.4 for permitted errors when data is not returned to the Requester.
shows the legal combinations of RespSepData and DataSepResp in relation to their message
Legal combinations of RespSepData and DataSepResp according to message
B9.1.4.2 
A DERR can be reported for a Dataless transaction when the processing of the transaction by another component
encounters a data corruption error. This DERR can be indicated back to the originating component, even though a
transfer of data does not occur.
Table B9.5 shows the Dataless transaction packets legal RespErr field values.


372

Dataless transaction Associated

Table B9.5: Legal RespErr field values for Dataless transactions

 Response packets CompAck
Comp Persist
 CompPersist


OK EXOK DERR NDERR OK EXOK DERR NDERR OK EXOK DERR NDERR

CleanUnique Y
 Y Y Y - - - - - - - - OK

MakeReadUnique
a
Y N Y Y - - - - - - - - OK

MakeUnique Y
 N Y Y - - - - - - - - OK

CleanShared Y
 N Y Y - - - - - - - - -

CleanSharedPersist Y N Y Y - - - - - - - - -

CleanSharedPersistSep Y N Y Y Y N Y Y Y N Y Y -

CleanInvalid Y
 N Y Y - - - - - - - - -
CleanInvalidPoPA
CleanInvalidStorage
MakeInvalid

Evict Y
 N N Y - - - - - - - - -

a
Applicable only when data is not returned to the Requester. See Table B9.2 and Table B9.3 for permitted errors when data is returned to the Requester.


 B9.6 shows the permitted RespErr values in responses to StashOnce transactions.


Dataless Stash transaction Associated Response packets
Comp StashDone
 CompStashDone


OK EXOK DERR NDERR OK EXOK DERR NDERR OK EXOK DERR NDERR

StashOnceUnique Y
 N Y Y - - - - - - - -
StashOnceShared

StashOnceSepUnique Y
 N Y Y Y N Y Y Y N Y Y
StashOnceSepShared

B9.1.4.3 Write transactions
───────── ─────────── ────────────── ──────────── ────────────── ────────────── ─────────── ────────── ─────────── ───── ──── ───────────
A Write transaction can include either a NDERR or a DERR. Errors can be signaled in both directions,
Requester to the Completer, and from the Completer back to the Requester.
Write data which is known to be corrupt must have an appropriate Error indication where the error can
or DERR.

Applicable only when data is not returned to the Requester. See Table B9.2 and Table B9.3 for permitted errors when data is returned to the Requester.
            Table B9.6 shows the permitted RespErr values in responses to StashOnce transactions.
                                                         Table B9.6: Legal RespErr field values for Dataless Stash transactions
A Write transaction can include either a NDERR or a DERR. Errors can be signaled in both directions, from the
Requester to the Completer, and from the Completer back to the Requester.
Write data which is known to be corrupt must have an appropriate Error indication where the error can be Poison
or DERR.

373

For a Write transaction an error can be signaled from the Completer back to the Requester using either the
combined CompDBIDResp or using the Comp response. It is permitted, but not required, for the Completer to
signal an error even before the WriteData for the transaction is observed. This can occur when the processing of
the transaction, such as the cache lookup, encounters a data corruption error.
Table B9.7 shows the Write transaction response packets legal RespErr field values.


Write transaction Associated

Table B9.7: Legal RespErr field values for Write transactions

 Response packets CompAck
DBIDResp* Comp CompDBIDResp


WriteNoSnp OK

OK EXOK DERR NDERR OK EXOK DERR NDERR

 Y
 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y OK

WriteNoSnpDef OK
a
a
 Y
N Y Y Y N Y Y -

WriteUnique OK Y
 N Y Y Y N Y Y OK

WriteNoSnpZero OK Y
 N Y Y Y N Y Y -
WriteUniqueZero

WriteBack
- Y
 N N Y Y N Y Y OK
WriteCleanFull
WriteEvictFull

WriteEvictOrEvict - Y
 N N Y Y N Y Y OK

a
In WriteNoSnpDef transactions, used in combination with Resp [2:0] to communicate Successful, Unsupported, and Defer responses. See Table
Requester that detects an error in the write data to be sent can include an Error indication with the
packet. This indicates that the data value is known to be corrupt.
Table B9.8 shows the Write transaction Data packets legal RespErr field values.
                                         Table B9.8: Legal RespErr field values in Data packets for Write transactions
a
In WriteNoSnpDef transactions, used in combination with Resp [2:0] to communicate Successful, Unsupported, and Defer responses. See Table B4.29 .


A Requester that detects an error in the write data to be sent can include an Error indication with the write data
packet. This indicates that the data value is known to be corrupt.
 B9.8 shows the Write transaction Data packets legal RespErr field values.


Write transaction Associated Data packets
WriteData WriteDataCancel
 NonCopyBackWriteDataCompAck


OK EXOK DERR NDERR OK EXOK DERR NDERR OK EXOK DERR NDERR

WriteNoSnp Y
 N Y N Y N Y N Y N Y N

WriteNoSnpDef Y
 N Y N Y N Y N Y N Y N

WriteUnique Y
 N Y N Y N Y N Y N Y N

Continued on next page


374

Table B9.8 –Continued from previous page

Write transaction Associated Data packets
WriteData WriteDataCancel
 NonCopyBackWriteDataCompAck


OK EXOK DERR NDERR OK EXOK DERR NDERR OK EXOK DERR NDERR

WriteBack
Y N Y N - - - - - - - -
WriteCleanFull
WriteEvictFull
WriteEvictOrEvict

transaction TagMatch packet legal RespErr field values when MTE is supported
Legal RespErr field values in TagMatch packets for Write transactions
Table B9.9 shows the Write transaction TagMatch packet legal RespErr field values when MTE is supported on
the interface of the Requester.

Table B9.9:

Write transaction Associated Response packets
TagMatch
OK EXOK DERR NDERR

WriteNoSnp Y
 N Y Y
WriteUnique

WriteBack -
 - -
 -
WriteCleanFull
WriteEvictFull
WriteEvictOrEvict
WriteNoSnpZero
WriteUniqueZero
WriteNoSnpDef


For permitted RespErr field values in a Combined Write transaction response:
• See Table B9.7 for the corresponding responses for the Write request.
• See Table B9.5 for the corresponding responses for the CMO request.
The permitted error responses in the CompCMO are the same as those in the Comp in Table B9.5 .
B9.1.4.4 Atomic transactions
It is permitted, but not required, for a Completer to give a Comp response before receiving all the write data
associated with a transaction and has performed the required operation. This behavior is not compatible with a
component that wants to signal a Data Error associated with the write data, and such components must use a
delayed form of Comp or CompData response.
In Atomic transactions, Read data or Write data which is known to be corrupt must have an appropriate Error
indication. The Read Data Error is either Poison , DERR, or NDERR. The Write Data Error is either Poison or
DERR.
A DERR or NDERR can be signaled at the following points within a transaction:

375

• With the CompDBIDResp response.
• For an AtomicStore transaction, with the Comp response.
• For an AtomicLoad , AtomicSwap , and AtomicCompare transaction, with the CompData response.
For Atomic transactions that are not able to complete, a NDERR must be used. The transaction structure,
including all write data transfers, read data transfers, and other responses must still take place. Snoop transactions,
including those back to the original Requester resulting from SnoopMe being set, are not required in this instance
of NDERR.
There is no need to specify an error associated with the execution of an atomic operation, such as overflow. All
atomic operations are fully specified for all input combinations.
A transaction includes both outbound and inbound data, but only has a single Error field. For Atomic transactions,
it is permitted for the Error field to indicate an error on either write data or read data. There is no mechanism
supported within the transaction to differentiate between the potential different causes of an error. A fault log, or a
similar structure, could be able to provide such information, but this is not a requirement of the CHI protocol.
The permitted RespErr values in Atomic transactions are an amalgamation of those permitted in Read and Write
transactions.
A DERR can vary between data packets.
Table B9.10 shows the Atomic transaction Response packets legal RespErr field values.

Table B9.10: Legal RespErr field values in Response packets for Atomic transactions

Atomic transaction Associated Response packets
DBIDResp* Comp CompDBIDResp


OK EXOK DERR NDERR OK EXOK DERR NDERR

AtomicStore OK
 Y
 N Y Y Y N Y Y

AtomicLoad
OK -
 - - - - - - -
AtomicSwap
AtomicCompare


376

Table B9.11 shows the Atomic transaction Data packets legal RespErr field values.

Table B9.11: Legal RespErr field values in Data packets for Atomic transactions

Atomic transaction Associated Response packets
WriteData CompData


AtomicStore Y

OK EXOK DERR NDERR OK EXOK DERR NDERR

 N Y N - - - -

AtomicLoad
Y N Y N Y N Y Y
AtomicSwap
AtomicCompare


Table B9.12 shows the Atomic transaction TagMatch packet legal RespErr field values when MTE is supported.

 B9.12: Legal RespErr field
Table
 values in TagMatch packets for Atomic transactions

Atomic transaction Associated Response packets
TagMatch


AtomicStore Y

OK EXOK DERR NDERR

 N Y Y
AtomicLoad
AtomicSwap
AtomicCompare


B9.1.4.5 Other transactions
This section describes the error handling requirements for the DVMOp and PrefetchTgt transactions.
B9.1.4.5.1 DVMOp
A DVMOp transaction can include a NDERR in the Comp response. The interconnect can consolidate error
responses from all the snoop responses for a DVMOp and include a single error response in the final Comp
message to the Requester. The DBIDResp packet must only use the OK response. Even though the Sender of a
WriteData response might not use DERR, the packet can be marked as DERR if it encounters errors during
transmission. See B9.2.3Interoperability of Poison and DataCheck .
Table B9.13 shows the DVM transaction Response packets legal RespErr field values.


377

Chapter B9. Error
B9.1. Packet level

Table B9.13: Legal RespErr field values in Response packets for DVM transactions

DVM transaction Associated Response packets
DBIDResp Comp CompDBIDResp


DVMOp OK

OK EXOK DERR NDERR OK EXOK DERR NDERR

 Y
 N Y Y Y N Y Y


Table B9.14 shows the DVM transaction Data packets legal RespErr field values.

Table B9.14: Legal RespErr field values in Data packets for DVM transactions

Associated Data packets
DVM transaction
NonCopyBackWriteData


OK EXOK DERR NDERR

DVMOp Y
 N Y N


B9.1.4.5.2 PrefetchTgt
A PrefetchTgt transaction request to a non-supporting address must be discarded.

Note
A component is permitted, but not required, to record and report such an error.

B9.1.4.6 Cache Stashing transactions
If the specified Stash target does not support receiving Stash snoops, the Home must disregard the Stash hint and
complete the transaction without Stashing. Examples of such Stash targets are RN-I, RN-D, legacy RN-F, or a
Non-request node. In these circumstances, Home must not signal an error to the Requester. Such a wrongly
specified Stash target can be attributed to a software-based error.
If the Home does not support Stash requests, the transaction must be completed in a protocol-compliant manner
without signaling an error.
B9.1.4.7 Snoop transactions
A Snoop transaction response that includes data can indicate a DERR. A Snoop transaction response that includes
data can mix OK and DERR responses for different packets within the transaction.
Data, in response to a Snoop request that is known to be corrupt, must have an appropriate Error indication where
the error can be Poison or DERR.
A Snoop transaction response that does not include data can indicate an NDERR.
A Snoopee that responds with an NDERR:
• Must not include data with the response.
• Must invalidate any locally cached copies.
• Must set the cache state in the response to Invalid.


ARM IHI 0050
378

• Must not forward a CompData response to the Requester in response to a Forwarding snoop. As a
consequence, if the CompData message is already sent to the Requester, the Snoop response to the Home
must not include a NDERR.
Table B9.15 shows the Snoop request Response packets legal RespErr field values.

 Legal RespErr field
Table B9.15:
 values in Response packets for Snoop transactions

 transaction Associated
Snoop
 Data and Response packets
SnpResp SnpRespData


OK EXOK DERR NDERR OK EXOK DERR NDERR

SnpOnce Y
 N N Y Y N Y N
SnpClean
SnpNotSharedDirty
SnpShared
SnpUnique
SnpPreferUnique
SnpUniqueStash
SnpCleanShared
SnpCleanInvalid

SnpStashUnique Y
 N N Y - - - -
SnpStashShared
SnpMakeInvalid
SnpMakeInvalidStash
SnpQuery
SnpDVMOp

    not required, that a DERR on a Clean cache line is dropped and the error is not
    included in the response to the Requester.
    line must be propagated to the memory, and in the response to the Requester.
    the DataPull request is not expected to be transferred to the Comp response to
    transaction, when simultaneously forwarding data to the Requester and returning
    but not required, for only one response to include an indication of a DERR if the
    the error.
    Forwarding Snoop response packets legal RespErr field values.
It is recommended, but not required, that a DERR on a Clean cache line is dropped and the error is not propagated
to the memory, nor included in the response to the Requester.
A DERR on a Dirty cache line must be propagated to the memory, and in the response to the Requester.
A DERR in response to the DataPull request is not expected to be transferred to the Comp response to the Stash
request.
For a Forwarding snoop transaction, when simultaneously forwarding data to the Requester and returning Data to
Home, it is permitted, but not required, for only one response to include an indication of a DERR if the other
response does not encounter the error.
Table B9.16 shows the Forwarding Snoop response packets legal RespErr field values.


379

Table B9.16: Legal RespErr field values in Response packets for Forwarding Snoop transactions

Snoop transaction Associated Response packets
SnpResp SnpRespFwded


OK EXOK DERR NDERR OK EXOK DERR NDERR

SnpOnceFwd
Y N N Y Y N Y N
SnpCleanFwd
SnpNotSharedDirtyFwd
SnpSharedFwd
SnpUniqueFwd
SnpPreferUniqueFwd

       Forwarding Snoop Data response packets legal RespErr field values.
Legal RespErr field values in Data packets for Forwarding Snoop transactions
Table B9.17 shows the Forwarding Snoop Data response packets legal RespErr field values.

Table B9.17: 

Snoop transaction Associated
 Data packets
SnpRespData CompData
SnpRespDataFwded


OK EXOK DERR NDERR OK EXOK DERR NDERR

SnpOnceFwd Y
 N Y N Y N Y N
SnpCleanFwd
SnpNotSharedDirtyFwd
SnpSharedFwd
SnpUniqueFwd
SnpPreferUniqueFwd


380