Chapter C5. Revisions
C5.11. Changes between Issue G.b and Issue H

Table C5.11 –Continued from previous page

Change Location

New feature: Multi-request B2.7.5
Transaction ordering
Table B13.22
B2.10 Request Retry
B11.7.1 TraceTag usage and rules

New property: MultiReq_Support B16.1.39
MultiReq_Support


MultiReq_Requester_Retry_Support

New property: MultiReq_Completer_Retry_Support B16.1.41
                                                 MultiReq_Completer_Retry_Support

New property: MultiReq_Requester_Retry_Support B16.1.40
                                                 MultiReq_Requester_Retry_Support
MultiReq_Completer_Retry_Support

Clarification: Error responses for non-store Atomic B9.1.4.4 Atomic transactions
transactions


706

Part D
Glossary

Chapter D1
Glossary


Copyright © 2014, 2017-2025 Arm Limited or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
708

Chapter D1. Glossary


Advanced Microcontroller Bus Architecture, AMBA
The AMBA family of protocol specifications is the Arm open standard for on-chip buses. AMBA provides
System-on-Chip up a
solutions for the interconnection and management of functional blocks that make
(SoC).
Applications include the development of embedded systems with one or more processors or signal processors and
multiple peripherals.
Aligned
A data item stored at an address that is divisible by the highest power of 2 that divides into its size in bytes.


 the same time


Aligned halfwords, words, and doublewords therefore have addresses that are divisible by 2, 4, and 8 respectively.
An aligned access is one where the address of the access is aligned to the size of each element of the access.
AMBA
See Advanced Microcontroller Bus Architecture.
At approximately
 events occur at approximately the same time if a remote observer might not be able to determine the order in
Two
which they occurred.
Barrier
An operation that forces a defined ordering of other actions.
Blocking
Describes an operation that prevents following actions from continuing until the operation completes.
A non-blocking operation can permit following operations to continue before it completes.
Byte
An 8-bit data item.
Cache
Any cache, buffer, or other storage structure in a caching Manager that can hold a copy of the data value for a
particular address location.
Cache hierarchy
The organization of different size caches in a hierarchy, typically within the cache with faster access and smaller
size closer to the core and larger and slower access ones farther away from the core. The last level of this hierarchy
might be conncted to the memory. In this specification, in relation to a referenced cache, above refers to caches
closer to the core, and below refers to caches farther from the core.
Cache line
The basic unit of storage in a cache. Its size in words is always a power of two. A cache line must be aligned to the
size of the cache line.
The size of the cache line is equivalent to the coherency granule.
Cache state
State of a block of data in a cache, of 64-byte size in this specification. The state determines if the block is cached
in any other caches in the system and also if it is different from the copy of the block in memory. See B1.5.2
Cache state modelfor a description of the cache states supported in this specification.
ceil()
A function that returns the lowest integer value that is equal to or greater than the input to the function.
Channel


709

Coherency


Coherent


Completer


Component


Deprecated


Device


Direct Write


Downstream


Downstream


Endpoint


A set of signals grouped together to communicate a particular set of messages between a Requester and Completer
pair. For example, Request channel is used to communicate request messages.
A channel consists of a set of information signals, and a separate Valid and Credit signal to provide the channel
handshake mechanism.
 granule
The minimum size of the block of memory affected by any coherency consideration. For example, an operation to
make two copies of an address coherent makes the two copies of a block of memory coherent, where that block of
memory is:
• At least the size of the coherency granule
• Aligned to the size of the coherency granule.
See also Cache line.


Data accesses from a set of observers to a memory location are coherent accesses to that memory location by the
members of the set of observers are consistent with there being a single total order of all writes to that memory
location by all members of the set of observers.


See Completer .


A distinct functional unit that has at least one AMBA interface. Component can be used as a general term for
Manager, Subordinate, peripheral, and interconnect components.
See also Interconnect component, Requester component, Memory Subordinate component, Peripheral Subordinate
component, Subordinate component.


Something that is present in the specification for backwards compatibility. Whenever possible you must avoid
using deprecated features. These features might not be present in future versions of the specification.


See Peripheral Subordinate component.
 Transfer
Sending Read data directly from a Snoopee or Subordinate to the Requester bypassing the Home Node.


A transaction operates between a Requester component and one or more Subordinate components, and can pass
through one or more intermediate components. At any intermediate component, for a given transaction,
downstream means between that component and a destination Subordinate component, and includes the
destination Subordinate component.
Downstream and upstream are defined relative to the transaction as a whole, not relative to individual data flows
within a transaction.
See also Requester component, Peer to Peer, Subordinate component, Upstream.
 cache
See Downstream cache .


See Endpoint .


710

Final destination
Final destination for a Memory transactin is a peripheral or physical memory, also called an Endpoint.
Flit
See Flit .
GPT
Granule Protection Table. Defines the ranges of physical memory that each PAS can access.
HN
See HN .
ICN
See ICN .
IMPLEMENTATION DEFINED
Means that the behavior is not defined by this specification, but must be defined and documented by individual
implementations.
When IMPLEMENTATION DEFINED appears in body text, it is always in small capitals.
IMPLEMENTATION SPECIFIC
Behavior that is not architecturally defined, and might not be documented by an individual implementation. Used
when there are a number of implementation options available and the option chosen does not affect software
compatibility.
When IMPLEMENTATION SPECIFIC appears in body text, it is always in small capitals.
In a timely manner
See In a timely manner .
Interconnect component
A component with more than one AMBA interface that connects one or more Manager components to one or more
Subordinate components
An interconnect component can be used to group together either:
• A set of Managers so that they appear as a single Manager interface
• A set of Subordinates so that they appear as a single Subordinate interface.
See also Component, Requester component, Subordinate component.
IO Coherent node
See IO Coherent node .
Line
See Cache line.
Link
A Link is the connection used for communicating between a Requester and Completer pair.
Link layer Credit
See DLink layer credit .
Load


711

The action of a Requester component reading the value held at a particular address location. For a processor, a
load occurs as the result of executing a particular instruction. Whether the load results in the Requester issuing a
read transaction depends on whether the accessed cache line is held in the local cache.
See also Speculative read, Store.
Main memory
The memory that holds the data value of an address location when no cached copies of that location exist. For any
location, main memory can be out of date with respect to the cached copies of the location, but main memory is
updated with the most recent data value when no cached copies exist.
Main memory can be referred to as memory when the context makes the intended meaning clear.
Memory Management Unit (MMU)
Provides detailed control of the part of a memory system that provides address translation. Most of the control is
provided using translation tables that are held in memory, and define the attributes of different regions of the
physical memory map.
See also System Memory Management Unit (SMMU).
Memory Subordinate component
A Memory Subordinate component, or Memory Subordinate, is a Subordinate component with the following
properties:
• A read of a byte from a Memory Subordinate returns the last value written to that byte location.
• A write to a byte location in a Memory Subordinate updates the value at that location to a new value that is
obtained by subsequent reads.
• Reading a location multiple times has no side-effects on any other byte location.
• Reading or writing one byte location has no side-effects on any other byte location.
See also Component, Requester component, Peripheral Subordinate component.
Message


Observer


Outstanding


Packet


Page-based


See Message .


A processor or other Requester component, such as a peripheral device, that can generate reads from or writes to
memory.
 request
A transaction is outstanding from the cycle that the request is first issued until either:
• The transaction is fully completed, as determined by the return of all responses that are expected for the
transaction.
• It receives RetryAck and PCrdGrant, and is either:
– Retried using a credit of the appropriate PCrdType, and then is fully completed as determined above.
– Canceled, and returns the received credit using the PCrdReturn message.


See Packet .
 Hardware Attributes (PBHA)


712

Peer node


Peer to Peer


Peripheral


Permission


Phit


PoC


PoDP


PoE


PoP


PoPA


PoS


Prefetching


Page Based Hardware Attributes (PBHA) is an optional,
to set up to two bits in the translation tables, which are then propagated though the memory system with
transactions, and can be used in the system to control system components. The meaning of the bits is specific to
the system design.


A protocol node of the same type with reference to itself. For example, the peer node for a Request Node is
another Request Node.


Communication between the same type of nodes. For example, one Request Node to another Request Node.
See also Downstream, Upstream.
 Subordinate component
A Peripheral Subordinate component is also described as a Peripheral Subordinate. It is recommended that a
Peripheral Subordinate has an IMPLEMENTATION DEFINED
sheet for the component. Any access that is not defined as permitted might cause the Peripheral Subordinate to fail,
but must complete in a protocol-correct manner to prevent system deadlock. The protocol does not require
continued correct operation of the peripheral.
See also Memory Subordinate component, Subordinate component.
 to store
A component has permission to store if it can perform a store to the associated cache line without informing any
other caching Manager or the interconnect.


See Phit .


See PoC .


See PoDP .


IMPLEMENTATION DEFINED feature. It allows software


method of access that is typically described in the data


See PoE .


See PoP .


See PoPA .


See PoS .


Prefetching refers to speculatively fetching instructions or data from the memory system. In particular, instruction
prefetching is the process of fetching instructions from memory before the instructions that precede them, in
simple sequential execution of the program, have finished executing. Prefetching an instruction does not mean that
the instruction has to be executed.
In this specification, references to instruction or data fetching apply also to prefetching, unless the context
explicitly indicates otherwise.


713

Processing


Protocol credit


Realm Management


Requester


Requester 


RN


Signed


SN


Snoop


Snooped


Speculative


 filter


 cache


Stash


Store


 Element (PE)
The abstract machine defined in the Arm architecture, as documented in the
A PE implementation compliant with Arm architecture must conform with behaviors described in the
corresponding Arm Architecture Reference Manual .


See Protocol credit .
 Extensions (RME)
The Realm Management Extension(RME) is an extension to the Armv9 A-profile architecture. RME is one
component of the Arm Confidential Computer Architecture(CCA). Together with the other components of the
Arm CCA, RME enables support for dynamic, attestable. and trusted execution environments, Realms, to be run
on an Arm PE. RME adds two additional Security states, Root and Realm, and two physical address spaces, Root
and Realm, and provides hardware-based isolation that allows execution contexts to run in different Security states
and share resources in the system.


See Requester .
component
A component that initiates transactions.
It is possible that a single component can act as both a Requester component and as a Subordinate component.
For example, a Direct Memory Access (DMA) component can be a Manager component when it is initiating
transactions to move data, and a Subordinate component when it is being programmed.
See also Component, Interconnect component, Subordinate component.


See RN .


A value with Two’s complement notation, unless otherwise stated.


See SN .


A precise snoop filter that is able to track precisely the cache lines that might be allocated within a Requester.


A hardware-coherent cache that receives Snoop transactions.
 read
A transaction that a Manager issues when it might not need the transaction to be performed because it already has
a copy of the accessed cache line in its local cache. Typically, a Manager issues a speculative read in parallel with
a local cache lookup. This gives lower latency than looking in the local cache first, and then issuing a read
transaction only if the required cache line is not found in the local cache.
See also Load.


The action of placing data in a cache closer to the agent that is expected to be the next user of the data.


Architecture Arm Reference Manual .


714

Subordinate


The action of a Requester component changing the value held at a particular address location. For a processor, a
store occurs as the result of executing a particular instruction. Whether the store results in the Requester issuing a
read or write transaction depends on whether the accessed cache line is held in the local cache, and if it is in the
local cache, the state it is in.


An agent that agent that receives and responds to requests.
Subordinate component
A component that receives transactions and responds to them.
It is possible that a single component can act as both a Subordinate component and as a Manager component. For


Synchronization


example, a Direct Memory Access (DMA) component can be a Subordinate component when it is being
programmed and a Manager component when it is initiating transactions to move data.
See also Requester component, Memory Subordinate component, Peripheral Subordinate component.
 barrier
See Barrier.
System
 Unit (SMMU)
 Memory Management
A system-level MMU. That is, a system component that provides address translation from a one address space to
another. An SMMU provides one or more of:
• Virtual Address (VA) to Physical Address (PA) translation


TLB


• VA to Intermediate Physical Address (IPA) translation
• IPA to PA translation.
See also Memory Management Unit (MMU).


See Translation Lookaside Buffer (TLB).
Transaction


Translation
See Transaction .
 (TLB)
 Lookaside Buffer
A memory structure containing the results of translation table walks. TLBs help to reduce the average cost of a
memory access.


Translation
See also System Memory Management Unit (SMMU), Translation table, Translation table walk.
 table
A table held in memory that defines the properties of memory areas of various sizes from 1KB.


Translation
See also Translation Lookaside Buffer (TLB), Translation table walk.
 table walk
The process of doing a full translation table lookup.


Unaligned
See also Translation Lookaside Buffer (TLB), Translation table.


An unaligned access is an access where the address of the access is not aligned to the size of an element of the

Unaligned
access.
 memory accesses


715

UNPREDICTABLE

Are memory accesses that are not, or might not be, appropriately halfword-aligned, word-aligned, or
doubleword-aligned.


In the AMBA Architecture, it means that the behavior cannot be relied upon.


Upstream


UNPREDICTABLE behavior must not be documented or promoted as having a defined effect.
When UNPREDICTABLE appears in body text, it is always in small capitals.


A transaction operates between a Requester component and one or more Subordinate components, and can pass
through one or more intermediate components. At any intermediate component, for a given transaction, upstream
means between that component and the originating Requester component, and includes the originating Requester
component.


Write-Back


Downstream and upstream are defined relative to the transaction as a whole, not relative to individual data flows
within the transaction.
See also Downstream, Requester component, Peer to Peer, Subordinate component.
 cache
A cache in which when a cache hit occurs on a store access, the data is only written to the cache. Data in the cache


Write-Invalidate

can therefore be more up-to-date than data in main memory. Any such data is written back to main memory when
the cache line is cleaned or re-allocated. Another common term for a Write-Back cache is a CopyBack cache.
 protocol
See Write-Invalidate protocol .


716